
[0:00] Hey, I think people make the market so complicated. It really comes down to two things. One, what are you doing with your life? What are you buying? Where are you eating out? Where's your restaurants? What car do you drive? What phone do you use? What are your friends talking about? And then just matching up those concepts &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; with some rules. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; Is the stock in an uptrend? Does it have good earnings? You combine those two things and and then they also have some sell rules and you should be able to find some very, very good stocks. Because just think of it, you're going to be trying to find the best product at the best price or the best service at the best price. And millions of other people are probably very similar to you and um they'll be doing the same thing. So, you're going to be you're you're going to be finding some great names. And as long as as long as the tax structure is uh 
[0:01] rewards innovation and entrepreneurship, these companies are just going to keep on coming. on coming. on coming. &gt;&gt; Right. And and you've called it the treasure hunt. That that's the name of your chapter in Market Wizards, the &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I mean the whole thing it's a game. It's like what's going to be the next next next concept, the next company that's going to do really, really well. And that's to to me that's why it's it's it's fun. It's ongoing. Um Um Um and it's yeah, it's just just a lot of fun. fun. fun. &gt;&gt; So, in my own experience, when I first started, I used to try to form a market opinion, look for the groups, and then buy the best stocks in the groups. And I constantly missed the leaders, and I never made any money for the first 6 years. I turned it all around. I flipped it backwards, and I said, "You know what? I'm going to let the stocks lead me because I keep missing them, and they're taking off. By the time I get on to the group, they're already taken off. So, I'm going to go and look for just those stocks and find the best stocks. And then, when I start to see a bunch of stocks in a particular group, I'll know the group's strong. And when we get a number of groups working and stocks are working, we'll know the market's strong. 
[0:02] And suddenly, I'm calling tops and bottoms like I got a crystal ball, and I'm making a bunch of money because I'm focusing on the best merchandise. &gt;&gt; Yeah, perfect. I think I think it's helpful. And any kind of guidelines or tips uh to help people with this process if if they're just starting out to to try to identify those leaders and and then bring that to the groups? &gt;&gt; Well, I mean the the the main tip is to, you know, read good books. You should read my books and read O'Neil's books. You don't really have to go much further than my books and and O'Neil's books are completely completely homogeneous. Um and and um you know, study those because 98% of everything that I do and I've done are in my books. Um and then if you want to take it to an even higher level of, you know, of education, that's why we have the Master Trader program, but you got to study. You've got to study. You've got to learn from people that have already done what you're looking to do. And um and the main thing is that you commit, whether it's to me, whether it's to somebody else, whether it's to a Bill Miller value strategy, commit to one style and strategy and become an expert at it. And 
[0:03] because you're not going to be able to do everything. And you're going to have to also realize that there's going to be times where those strategies aren't going to work very well, and then it's someone else's turn. And that's when you you you do other work like, you know, your house cleaning work and do your post analysis and things like that. And then and read and study more. &gt;&gt; They're perfectly. And when that rolls over, it goes dormant for 10, 20 years. But CAN SLIM is predicated on the new like Bill says, what the golden list is the new high list. list. list. So, it's always going to keep you in tune, and you throw in fundamental analysis with all those metrics, and then trend following. So, you know, the your leader is not going to have RS of 12 and be below the Um Um Um so, you we need to get those MAs in a in a bullish alignment with the indexes. And your new leader is going to be a basketball that's just going to spring up cuz it's been held underwater for 9 months. months. months. Um and also 
[0:04] I've really been fortunate with some IPOs that came public at the end of bears. bears. bears. When you can get an institution to pony up at the end or in the middle of a bear, it's going to be just like pristine pristine. It's going to have everything. So just we haven't seen many. There's been a couple really small deals, but nothing that I've seen yet, but we'll probably see some of that. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; New highs, list, buddy. Make it simple. &gt;&gt; And for in terms of the new highs, list, are you referring to all-time highs or just distinction. &gt;&gt; I &gt;&gt; I &gt;&gt; I hypocrite. A lot of things I say, I then refine and twist them a little bit. In a bear market like this, the damage is so enormous. I'm looking for great action, maybe &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; But look at when you look at LI, um the auto EV manufacturer in China, it's at all-time new highs. It's it's right there. So that has a very unique signature 
[0:05] telling you that it's it's rare merchandise, okay? I mean I mean I mean it just it it just it it just it Why would you buy anything that has massive overhead when a stock in the same group is within 2% of the all-time high? It just it's doesn't make any sense. You're fooling around with the second best player. And I did a study and I proved that the difference between the number one stock in a group and number two is 50%. If the leader goes up 300, the number two stock goes up 150. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; So I want that Now, the problem is this. If you miss the leader, now you're aware of the sector. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; And the number two stock's going to set up and you're going to go for it cuz number one's extended. And I, you know, I am I I had I do have a stock right now that is like number two two two because exact that situation exactly happened. But I'll you know, I think if Bill was here he'd say you're going to have to find a way in, whether you're going to take the added risk and you're going to load up at a two weeks tight 
[0:06] or a pullback to the 50. You just When you identify the monster you know, Bill always had them. I would talk to him and invariably he would be in the very best two or three names in the whole market. Well, nobody gets all those names at the perfect place. They you know, they sneak up on you, you miss them. I mean, even Bill missed them. No question about it. But he ended up working his way in. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; But it when you miss the first true bear market cup and handle and it takes off off off that's your ultimate lowest risk point. Every Every Every secondary secondary buy points are higher risk. They're much better for adds than start a whole new position. &gt;&gt; And uh back to you know, separating that distinction between the leader and you know, the silver medal in the group. Um I'd love to hear you talk about the distinction and how you determine what is the leader and and what are what are overall groups that are leading as well. I think that'd be that'd be awesome. 
[0:07] &gt;&gt; I mean, you know, Bill would say it's the stock you're up the most on. It's the stock that has the 99 RS, the It They stand out like sore thumbs. It's not hard to find them. It's hard to commit to them cuz they're going to be extended. It's hard to be patient. You know, most people will find it and they'll be like, "Oh, it's a lock. It's going to go up 200%." They'll buy it extended and they're going to get whipped out in 20 minutes or worse they won't cut their loss, which is the biggest rookie mistake of all time. Not hard to find them. Any jackass can screen. It's how do you handle what you find? &gt;&gt; This is what you're going to look for off the general market low. When you're in a correction, you want to look for stocks that corrected the least amount off the highs. Um Um Um the closer to a new high the better, but generally I like them to be within 25% of a new high. Um when when when I'm looking to buy them. They may correct more than that, but when I'm when I'm going to look to buy them, I don't want to be buying stocks that are down 40 50% and that's 
[0:08] where I'm buying them from cuz there's too much overhead supply. Number two, stocks are stocks are stocks are base building. They're consolidating within within a long-term uptrend like Tripoli Tripoli. They had that consolidation moving sideways. Maybe you you know, maybe tried to break out of a shorter base. As long as it stays consolidating and it meets the criteria, stick with it. Um the ones that surged the most and the fastest off the lows and got to new highs the quickest, those are usually those are not may not be viable right away cuz they get extended. But then you'll look for a lot of up days versus down days. What uh uh David Ryan invented called ants. We have down. You'll look for that type of action and then from there a subsequent entry point. And then also IPOs, recent IPOs. I mean right now I'm short dicks. I was buying dicks off of its first IPO base before it went up 500% and now that that's that's long gone and now it's it's rolled over and it's a it's a 
[0:09] short. So but look for those IPOs because the best time to buy IPOs is when the market's in a correction and that's the earliest point that you're going to get a stock. So I call those magnitude plays because you're getting it as early as you can in its life cycle. And then going back to your your your point on incremental exposure progressive exposure, then as you start to see trades working and these trades showing you profits, then you incrementally start adding exposure as long as the stocks are being those criteria. criteria. criteria. &gt;&gt; Yeah, perfect. And going to point number four, both the Cisco example and Peloton, they were both recent IPOs that went through their primary base and were exploding higher uh coming out of correction. So, uh 100% those are great examples. examples. examples. &gt;&gt; All right. So, the fundamentals. So, everybody talks about how to make money in stocks and the CAN SLIM strategy and all this stuff. I am not a CAN SLIM trader. Like, I do not follow the CAN SLIM method. 
[0:10] Is what I do do is I is I is I fully study this book. This book is a study of the biggest winners in history and and and and I mean, it gives us the fundamental blueprint. So, like, everything from how to make money in stocks that I pay attention to are really like the fundamental characteristics. I mean, William O'Neil did the work for us. He like laid it out for us. Um and I mean, the basic bare minimum things that he kind of put out there are minimum quarterly earnings and sales growth, you know, 17% ROE. I personally just over the years having learned from some guys, I like 40% I like 40% I like 40% uh earnings and sales and really the higher the better. I mean, like Dan Zanger, that's his whole thing is like the higher the better. Like, triple digit earnings and sales even better. Um and then also we want to see accelerating growth 
[0:11] versus just like growth. So, you know, if a company has one really good quarter, let's say they grow their earnings at like 30 or 300% and their revenue like 150%, but then the next quarter it's like 40 isn't like good growth, but it's like the the meta or or whatever that's growing at like, you know, you know, you know, right now meta's had a big uptick in in its earnings last couple of quarters but let's just say like a company that's growing at 35 35 consistently every quarter and they're doing like huge revenue and in a big earnings number you know that's like a mature growth company that to me is a better number than some company that like had huge growth and then it decelerated rapidly and the numbers aren't that big whereas that smaller company or not necessarily smaller but that company that does like 300% 
[0:12] earnings and like you know maybe like quarter they do like 400% earnings growth and then the next quarter they do like 500% I mean that is like the cream of the crop and we can have a huge triple digit number that is accelerating quarter to quarter um that is huge and the reason being in addition to just like it's a great growth story is that the market is also going to give that stock a higher multiple multiple multiple because every single year when they hit their number like think about it if a stock has a 100 PE and they grow earnings at 500% over the course of the year you know in general those stocks do go up but let's say the price is the same you know now that PE is 20 um so you know that's why I don't really look at PEs exclusively on growth stocks because if 
[0:13] they grow quick enough even if they double double double you know which is what we've seen with Nvidia here right Nvidia has gone up you know over 500% yet the PE has come down um so we want to find those companies with huge earnings and sales &gt;&gt; Ants indicator right? &gt;&gt; Yes Yeah &gt;&gt; Can you talk about a little bit of what that is yeah? &gt;&gt; Yeah that's something I I I'd came up with back when I was running the mutual fund for fund for fund for William O'Neil and Company in the new USA growth fund because what would happen is that we would stick to stopping our buy at 10% out of the base. And I would I would see that the buying would just continue on afterwards and that that that those turned out to be some of the biggest stocks where we would finish their buying. There were still other institutions that were out there buying it. it. it. So, So, So, I just started I asked the question, 
[0:14] what's the difference between a stock that's going to make just a stock that's going to have a multi-year move or a multi-month move and have huge performance. And I found that it was usually the buying at the beginning of the move and you can actually see it occurred a few different times. I mean, here it it occurred over in here. And then you can see it occurring over here. And so it just what it tells you is that there are institutions out there that they and they do a, you know, a tremendous amount of research that they found that hey, this is a company that could have a great growth for a while and they have and they can't get it done. Especially, let's say I mean, today the stock trade buying three or four million shares, it's going to take them a number of days if not weeks to complete. If you have 
[0:15] more than one institution doing the same thing, then this can go on for weeks and that's what I found. This is just showing you huge institutional money getting aboard a stock and taking a long-term position in it. it. it. &gt;&gt; And that's what creates the trends that we can ride as as uh retail investors. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah, and the and characteristics are this is what I kind of boiled it down to is you want you want a stock that is up 12 out of 15 days. You want a stock that has at about a 25% move during those 15 days, and you also want the volume up 25% during those number of institutions taking a big position uh in a in a company. The other the one other thing you have to be careful of though is if the stock has been moving for a long time and you get those exact same characteristics. Like it could might have actually happened here 
[0:16] here here &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; is that it's actually it's it sometimes I I it was just a great indicator because we found it was showing up at the beginning of the move and it was showing up at the end of the move when the stock was getting very extended. And so uh I I it was the first time I'd ever seen an indicator that could work both ways. ways. ways. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; And you know, the the the climactic move is when you know, everybody recognizes it and everybody can't take it anymore and they've all got to buy it and that's usually a the climactic move and the stock's over. In this case, it was over for about three or four months. But in other cases, that's the end of the move for years. So um it it actually works um it's it's worked very very well. &gt;&gt; Yeah, so like look, I do you know, I run quote unquote you know, scans. Like I scan for volume um every night. I look for huge volume. Um and that's kind of part of my process. It really takes me like three to five minutes each day. Um and for all the names I uncover doing 
[0:17] that, you know, if I can catch maybe one or two names a year out of the hundreds that I might write down, you know, that's sort of how it plays out. You know, for example &gt;&gt; SMCI &gt;&gt; this year SMCI, I found SMCI like 68 bucks. I took one trade in it then on a bull snort, it ran, and then I kind of just didn't think anything of it. Um and then I was looking and throughout all of 2022 it kept going up. And then I kind of really caught a big trade in it, you know, earlier this year. Um or I guess I guess in you know, must have been like April to July of 2023. And then and then this year. Um but really a lot of the other names that I scan for in there in in road town I I didn't trade. Um Um Um I tend to kind of like I said, I tend to make, you know, most of my money in like three to five stocks. So this year that's been like Nvidia, SMCI, Cava, AMD, you know, more at the 
[0:18] beginning of the year. Um What else is in there? Um &gt;&gt; Crowd. &gt;&gt; Coin. Coin's been good. Crowd's been good for me. Those have kind of been my kind of go-to names the last, you know, you know, really kind of since this move really started in October, those six names have kind of been my key names. And then I've traded other names outside of that, but I would be willing to bet that they've all kind of evened out and I've made all my money in in those key names and a lot of it in Nvidia in particular. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um all right. 