
[0:00] When you want to run hot is when you want to let your heat grow and and let your open P&amp;L grow because you can get the potential very large return. The con is if your timing is off or the rally doesn't continue, you are going to give back a lot of open P&amp;L. When to cool off, sell it to strength or smaller initial size on trades, the rally has been going on for several months. So pros, you can reduce potential draw down if the rally fizzles. Con, of course, if the market continues, you miss out on potential gains. So, and and the ways to reduce heat or open P&amp;L, you you know, you cut positions, raise trailing stop losses, and you stop initiating new trades. When the trades work in my favor, I I increase the risk 75 up to equity risk to account. Then the the larger size is when all the stars align. That is not a frequent size. That's on a A+ setup when I have traction in my portfolio. And you have to trust that sooner or later you will be trading well in a good market. And then all you need to do is connect with a few trades. You're up for the month and then you can really ramp up the aggression and get really aggressive. You don't want to start ramping the aggression when you're 
[0:01] when you're already drawing down. You only want to ramp when you're winning. So much of the game is surviving till you get a time, you know, an easy money environment where there's, you know, 50 stocks that are up 100 200% in a year and all you have to do is catch a few of them with decent size and you can have a fantastic return. I personally have never come back from a large DRA draw down in a month. But I have made the draw down much worse and I have had multiple losing months in a row. You know, in hindsight, you know, going back and looking at my results, I realized that I'd be much better off just cutting the losing months short, slashing risk and limiting risk uh going forward. [Music] All right, welcome back everybody. It's my pleasure to introduce the next presenter of the Trailing Conference. Uh someone who I'm really looking forward to hearing from. uh Christian Flanders. Uh Chris is a swing trader and top performer uh in last year's US Championship with a return of over 400%. He's competing again this year and doing very well in the money manager division. And today he'll be focusing on one of really the most important parts of 
[0:02] trading and something that I think takes a little bit to grasp progressive exposure. So I think this will help out a lot of traders out there. Uh Chris, thank you so much first of all for taking the time and uh yeah, thanks so much for being a part of the conference. I appreciate it. Thanks, Richard. It's it's an honor to be presenting. Uh I I've watched this every year since its inception. So, it's uh it's it's pretty surreal to be to be a part of it. It's it's wonderful. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Well, it's of course it's great to have you and uh yeah, let's dive right in. And first uh first things first, I think uh yeah, this this will be a great great topic and uh excited to dive in on progressive exposure. &gt;&gt; Okay. Yeah, great. Let's do it. Um so, yeah, progressive exposure, the key to consistency and longevity in trading. Um so so so the big thing with trading is you know your your goals uh what are you trying to achieve and why are you trying to achieve them. Um and this is uh very important because you know there's a ton of adversity uh that you're going to have to overcome as a trader. So it is 
[0:03] very important to have a very powerful why to keep you motivated when and when the going gets tough. Um for me personally uh I uh I had uh three years in a row of of draw down and you know what what kept me going was the desire to provide for my family and you know how much trust my wife put in me to quit her job to give me a chance to make this happen. Um so you know that very powerful why and that kept me through through the tough times. Um uh what return are you aiming for? what draw down can you tolerate and what are you willing to sacrifice to make it these are all very important questions which uh you know are are key uh as as we move forward through the presentation okay uh Albert Einstein didn't actually say this but I I thought uh you know it was it's it's still a very powerful quote and something that you know you need a big brain to think about but compound interest is one of the most powerful things in finance in the world really um 
[0:04] and if you understand it uh you can harness its power. So here we go. Uh what's the rush? So a lot of beginner traders and and I was guilty of this too are in a very large rush to make their fortune. You see the potential, you see the kind of numbers that you know amazing traders can put up and you think I want it. I want it right now. Well, if you look at the results of, you know, very, you know, great returns, what happens over time if you can maintain a high compound annual growth rate or a kagger? Um, I would So, yeah. Okay. Morgan Hel earlier he had a great presentation about uh the dangers of trying to make too much money too fast uh with leverage. And I think this goes to show how much money is possible with solid returns and using the power of time and compound interest. Uh Uh Uh Warren Buffett has a great quote on this 
[0:05] um why he's so successful and why more people don't emulate him and he said that no one wants to get rich slow everyone wants to get rich fast. So you can see the returns you know at 20% return 25% return after a decade after are are I mean they're mindboggling it's it's hard to even comprehend how big those numbers can get. Um and then you see you know some market wizards like uh you know Mark Mervini compounded that you know 100 is it 150% for five years. Qualamagi has compounded for I believe big those numbers uh numbers get. Okay. Uh and this is a slide just showing um what a big losing year can do to your total return and how it affects your kagger. So in the first example, you know, a trader two 50% years backtoback, you know, fantastic numbers, you know, mind-blowing numbers, right? Year three minus 50%, and you see that the total return drops to 12 a.5% and and the 
[0:06] kagger drops to 4%. So this just shows how I mean ideally you never have a losing year but you know I've had losing years losing years you know they happen um the goal is to keep them as small as possible to not reduce your kagger. So boom and bust uh the killer of compounding uh Charles Harris had a fantastic presentation uh on his YouTube channel. If you're not familiar with him I highly recommend you watch it. Um but the bust is what kills compounding. Uh having the big down years, the big down months uh really uh remove uh the power of compounding. So I I have here, this is actually from a trader from last year in the USIC enhanced division who showed his uh results. A fantastic year-to- date return, but what a ride to get there. Uh not a ride that I would enjoy. I I don't think he enjoyed it either, but uh but but he got the other side. 
[0:07] But but you know, you run a lot of risk um um w with those kinds of uh monthly floods. So how can we get off that roller coaster? Uh having rules, the discipline to follow them, progressive exposure, and then what I call a heat check. Um, and so progressive exposure is I didn't define it at the start, but it's basically uh trading with larger size when you're winning and reducing size when you're not. Uh, that that's really it and it's in its simplest form. Uh, so here's a great Livermore quote. A loss never bothers me after I take it. I forget it overnight, but being wrong, not taking a loss, that is what does damage to the pocket and to the soul. So he's one of, you know, the greatest trader ever traders ever and a maybe the biggest boom and buster ever going to hundred million fortune $100 million fortune to bankrupt to I I'm sure he ran it up I think three or four times. So he is probably the ultimate uh boom and 
[0:08] buster and that that $und00 million adjusted for inflation is over a billion dollars a as an individual trader. So the struggle with accepting losses is a recurring human phenomenon. We are all guilty of this or or or is ingrained into ourselves. Uh loss aversion, we feel a lot more pain uh from losses than pleasure from gains. I'm you know I I'm definitely guilty of that. I maybe you are too, Richard. The losses hurt a lot more than the gains. And then the sunk cost fallacy, which is uh you're reluctant to abandon a strategy or course of action because you've already invested so much in it even when it is clear that the abandon would be more beneficial. So I have a a story about this or a story but just a analogy with poker that um if you play poker live for long enough you get a good idea of the kind of opponents you play against. So there's one kind of opponent called the rock or the net and he only bets when he has it especially on the river. If he makes a large bet he has it. He has very likely the best he has 
[0:09] the nuns. He has the best possible hand. You know he has it. He knows he has it. The table knows he has it. The guy who is about to call him knows he has it, but he just can't let it go because what if he doesn't have it this time. Uh, and of course he does have it and he loses his money. So, the sun cost fallacy of already putting so much into the pot and then being unable to fold. So, a sign of a of a professional in poker, a strong professional is the ability to fold extremely strong hands uh with extremely high absolute value when they estimate the odds of it being good are not high enough to justify the call. So, you know, if you have the second nuts and a player that only bested the nuts best into you, you know, strong players can make that fold, but amateurs would not be able to relinquish their hand uh in that example. And uh just to jump in, Chris, do you want to mention a little bit about your professional uh poker playing background because some people watching this might not be familiar of like how you made that transition from from poker to training just very 
[0:10] briefly? Yeah, &gt;&gt; sure. Yeah. Uh so, you know, I played well I Let me scroll back really quick, but I you know, I I I played I I should have started with this, but I I played uh uh online poker for uh about a decade professionally before I uh transitioned over uh to trading. Um, and I played primarily online, 99% online, but a little bit live. And uh, you know, online you're you're you're staring at a computer screen. It's much more uh, mathematical, I I guess you would say. But, you know, the few times they did play live, you see crazy stuff. I mean, you see guys, you know, lose a hand turned, you know, they they get visibly red and they just start playing every hand blind. Blind is you don't look at their cards, you know, they just start they they would just start playing every hand. I mean, you you see wild behavior. Um and and you see it in financial markets as well when uh when market participants are clearly you know you know when the fear gets really high you can see it in the price action the way the way prices move. Um but yeah I played poker for for almost 10 years professionally um before uh transitioning uh over to trading. So 
[0:11] we'll we'll we'll &gt;&gt; also I think worth mentioning because I I want I've got a lot of I've got some questions about the analogies between progressive exposure in the markets and how how that comes from maybe some poker player mindset too. Yeah, I'll let I'll let you keep going. &gt;&gt; Okay, sure. So, yeah, learning to take losses. So, learn to take losses. The most important thing in making money is not letting your losses get out of hand. So, I got to speak with a uh a veteran trader who's been in the market since the 1980s. I mean, he was, you know, he still draws charts by hand and even he still struggles with taking losses. He he he was telling me how his his biggest regrets or his biggest mistakes are not taking the losses when he knows he should. He's more of a of a research uh and fundamental guy, right? So, if he believes in the story, if he has conviction, he's he's going to try to let it play out. And that's resulted in some gut-wrenching uh losses and draw downs. Um so, you know, draw downs. So, so his his his thing to me was, you know, discipline. You know, take the losses while they're still small. Get out because he's he's had to learn the hard way and I have as well. Um you 
[0:12] know, draw downs cannot be controlled without taking losses before they become large. You know, everyone has losing trades. how you handle them is the difference between average good and great returns. And then Mark Mi just posted this about five minutes ago, but I thought I'd include it uh about the reality of controlling risk. Um and that if you don't feel like an idiot, uh you're not managing risk. Uh because you are going to get stocked out often and have the stocks turn back around and go up. And that has happened to me uh countless times and it continues to happen to me today. I've been in almost every leader in this rally and uh got knocked out of a lot of them and you know and that's that's part of the game. You have you have to get used to it and and not go on tilt uh and just pull your stops because eventually you will take a very large loss which I have as well. Okay. So yeah, draws are inevitable. They will always happen. The key is keeping them as small and controlled as possible. Uh and and Mark Murbby has a 
[0:13] great story in one of his books about how uh he went back and looked at his trades he had if you remove the large losses his results would have uh been fantastic. So he going forward he said I'm not I I refuse to allow any more large losses. If they get me it's going to be death by a thousand cuts. So here we go. Death by a thousand cuts. So, you know, I actually I I Googled this because I I didn't know what it was from, but it was a form of execution in China, which involved lit, you know, a th wouldn't take a thousand, but you know, these small cuts that would be extremely painful um and eventually result in death. But thankfully, in trading, uh you will not die from taking a lot of small cuts. You can survive uh and give yourself time to adjust, to learn, to adapt, and evolve. Um and this is a feature. It's not a bug. It is part of the game. The draw downs are part of the game. you will be in a draw down. You know, if you trade the way I do at least, you know, swing trading, you will be in a draw down most of the time. Um the the making new equity highs is is is 
[0:14] the rare part. The draw downs are are really what's common. Uh and to capitation, you know, one large loss can be fatal. I've met many traders that have that have had the the one large loss uh wipe them out. I've had traders um where they've had one loss take out multiple years of gains, one large loss. I've had traders with, you know, who have large accounts lose it all in one trade. One large loss. So, you know, I I have taken a large loss and after that I I said never again. Uh I'm never going to let that happen again. So, the only way to prevent a large loss is you take the loss before before it becomes large. Uh so, personal journey trade is an extremely personal journey. what what works for one trader may not work as well for others. Um, you have to find out what works for you. So, it took me seven, eight years to for all of this to click. Um, and I now by now I have a pretty good idea of what my strengths and weaknesses are. And the way I use progressive exposure, it's it's really to protect me from myself because I I 
[0:15] get uh I get overly aggressive and I will overtrade, which is a weakness that I I continue to work on. Um but hopefully this can help you think about what your personal strengths and weaknesses are and what you can do to uh you know highlight your strengths and uh reduce or hide your weaknesses as much as possible. So uh strengths and weaknesses. So you know you know risk the double-edged sword you know my strength is the ability to put on risk and aggressively paramid as trades work in my favor. Um and my weaknesses I overtrade and I place a lot of risk on quite quickly. So if my timing is off, uh I can get hammered pretty fast. So how do I protect myself from myself? Um default position size 0.25 to 0.5% risk per trade. Uh that's much smaller than I used to trade. When I would have very large draw downs, I used to trade much larger. So I I reduced my initial position sizing. And uh when the trades 
[0:16] work in my favor, I I increase the risk uh 75 up to 2.5% risk per trade. uh that's total uh equity risk to account. Then the larger size is when all the stars align. That is not a frequent size. That's on a A+ setup in when I have traction in my portfolio. And then the maxim monthly loss. I try to keep my losses at a maximum of 5%. And uh I will reduce risk for the next month if I have a negative month. And you never ever want to have cascading growing losses uh monthly. That is key. um that that's how you can enter a trader death spiral. Uh and uh that is that is a very unpleasant uh thing. &gt;&gt; And uh sorry, just to jump in, I think the last time we did a podcast, Chris, you know, we talked about that quite a bit that that was what your one of your focuses going forward is keeping those monthly draw downs as small as possible. Um yeah, any any kind of um with with that added experience now since the last 
[0:17] time we talked, how's that been going and and how how's that kind of helped you both, you know, protect your equity but also protect your mindset as well so you're you're you're mentally ready to profit from the better periods in the market when the market cycles eventually shift back to an uptrend. &gt;&gt; Right. So it's I mean it's helped immensely. I I have kept my monthly losses to 5% or less. Um so I have not gone into a large draw down uh this year. Uh it's it's been very controlled. Um you know I think a lot of guys it can be frustrating at times because you know the market's been you know very bullish since you know the lows in April right but what if you are not trading well but you see the market taking off with you. Well you know that that can be difficult. There was a stretch where I sized large on a few trades and had four losers in a row and I immediately slammed the brakes. Even though the market was was was positive, I was I I reduced size because, you know, if you continue trading large because of the market, you 
[0:18] you run the risk of a draw down. I mean, the only way to to stop the large draw downs is you must cut size if your trades aren't working. And uh I mean I I cover that a little bit later, but bas basically, you know, if if you're not winning, there's no reason to to maintain size. You you have to stop. You have to cut the risk. Um yeah, I mean that that that's that's that's really it's the only way to protect yourself. And you have to trust that sooner or later you will be trading well in a good market. And then all you need to do is connect with a few trades. You're up for the month. And then you can really ramp up the aggression and get really aggressive. You really don't you don't want to start ramping the aggression when you're when you're already drawing down. You only want to ramp when when when you're winning. And then you can get, you know, really aggressive. I I've been helping a friend trade and he gets I mean, I would say it's like it's too aggressive really. I mean, he's risking four or five% of his account, but he he's up so much now and 
[0:19] it's it's okay. I mean, you know, if he's willing to stomach the draw down, which which, you know, eventually will come, you can be really aggressive. I'm fine with extreme aggression when you are winning and you have the profit cushion. You just don't ever want to do that when when you're losing. &gt;&gt; Yeah, perfect. Sorry to jump in, but uh I I thought that was a good good thing to talk about. &gt;&gt; So, yeah. So, you know, so for max loss, you at 0.5% risk per trade, you need 10 losers in a row to hit minus 5%. And at row to hit minus 5%. So, I've personally had 20 losing trades in a row. I I've had more than 20 losing trades in a row. So, it seems crazy. You think, how can you possibly lose 20 in a Well, that's what I used to think, too. And then I would increase size at the end because there's just absolutely no way I can lose 17, 18, 19, 20. And then it would happen and then the draw down would get worse. So, uh when I start losing uh I I I cut the size and and that's what really keeps the draw downs in control. So, uh yeah, after a losing month, uh I reduce I will reduce the maximum draw 
[0:20] down allowed for next month. So, the first month maybe - 5, -3, 3, -2, - 1, -.5. So, if you have 12 consecutive months of losses following this principle, you'd be minus 15% for the year. So, I've never had 12 months in a row of of losing. I I've had four or five in a row, I believe. Um, but yeah, I mean, you know, so if you were able to follow this, you you know that your your your annual loss could never be, you know, maybe 15, maybe, you know, maybe minus 20, right? But you keep it, you know, reasonable. It's recoverable. You really don't want the minus50 - 60 - 70% draw downs because those are extremely difficult uh mentally to recover from but also just mathematically you know once you're down 50% I mean you need a double to get back to even and a minus you need a large gain to get back and I have done that I have I have come back from a 60 65% draw down and it it was not pretty I I would not wish that upon anyone And you know, this is a way to 
[0:21] prevent that from ever happening. And and if you ever do go through that and manage to come back, at least for me, I you know, never ever want to have that happen again. Never ever. So, you know, and and this is the only way that that that I know of to to prevent that from happening. happening. happening. So, yeah, portfolio trash. Once you're winning and have profits, you can increase position sizing if you so choose to push size, risk, and return. And if losing, cut size, cut risk. So, like like I said with my friend, you know, you know, he's always asking me, you know, is it too much size? Is it too much size? Can I? I'm like, look, you're in the green, you're winning. You have the green light. Once you're winning and you know, the market's good. You have the green light to get get as aggressive as as as as you want really. It's just once you start losing, you must aggressively cut size. Okay. So, monthly aggressive exposure. So, what controlling draw downs can do for your results. The power of compounding. So we we I I took the trader from the USC enhanced division and showed what happens if you if you were to cap his monthly losses at minus 
[0:22] months by 10% because you know maybe he has to you know be a little more cautious uh in general. And you can see the the year-to-ate return uh more than doubles. And then if you're able to just keep the monthly loss control to minus is you know out of this world. I mean a take uh, for granted the the ability to have a stop loss. So he, so I got to speak with him on the phone. He works at a financial institution. So he has to pre-check all of his trades. So he cannot he cannot trade without approval. So before he puts a trade on, he has to send it to HR and they approve or disprove the trade. So you cannot have stop loss. So uh, you know, Mini has a great quote about driving a uh, not having stop losses like driving a car without brakes. you know, sooner or later, you know, you you just you just can't stop. So, you know, still impressive returns uh without using stop losses, but uh you know, he we had a 
[0:23] conversation about that, but you know, he's he's adjusted uh since then. So, oh, so yeah, my experience. So, I personally have never come back from a large draw down in a month, but I have made the draw down much worse and I have had multiple losing months in a row. And uh you know in hindsight you know going back and looking at my results I realized I'd be much better off just cutting the losing month short slashing risk and limiting risk uh going forward. Um if you're uh drawing down you know likely the market is either negative your timing is off and or you aren't seeing the ball clearly or you know combination of all three maybe one or or maybe two. you know, earlier this year, you know, the market was great, but my timing was off. So, I I cut size and then, you know, a few winning trades in a row, you see your A+ setup, you size up, that's a winner, and and and you're back in business. You you can go back to being really aggressive. Um, and and that that's that's how to keep the draw downs control. So, yeah, study market history. The bull markets, they always come after bears. They always come back 
[0:24] and the opportunities uh are immense. And I I wanted to refer to my Evernote where you know some years I'll have you know 50 60 uh studies of previous market winners. Some years I'll have two or three. So you know are there always opportunities? Yes. But some years you're flooded with them. Other years not so much. So so much of the game is surviving till you get a time you know an easy money environment where there's you know 50 stocks that are up 100 200% in a year and all you have to do is catch a few of them with decent size and and you can have a fantastic return. So here you go. So portfolio heat. So risk versus heat. Heat uh how much equity you lose if all your stops are hit. Risk is how much initial equity you lose if all your stops are hit. So I have a few examples here uh just just showing the difference between risk and heat. So heat basically includes your open P&amp;L while risk is just the the the initial uh account risk. So the heat check if only my stops hit what's the draw down? That simple. So that that includes open P&amp;L. So if you So I mean 
[0:25] you'll see traders post about on online about how you know uh they want they want to they want to take profits. Why? Well because the heat is too much right? I mean I I've had times where the heat is like uh well last year the heat at one point was you know almost the entire you know the entire account practically. I mean I was up 100% in the portfolio. I mean my heat was massive. Um so are you okay with that? Because you know that's the potential draw down. So, uh, when to run hot. So, this this this is this is very important. Uh, at the start of rallies, much easier said than done, but when you want to run hot is when you want to let your heat grow and and let your open penal grow because you can get the potential very large returns. The con, of course, because you know, everything in trading has has a drawback for the most part. The con is if your timing is off or the rally doesn't continue, you are going to give back a lot of open P&amp;L. Um 
[0:26] when to cool off uh sell to strength or smaller initial size and trades, the rally has been going on for several months. So pros, you can reduce potential draw down if the rally fizzles. Uh the con of course if the market continues, you miss out on potential gains. So and and the ways to reduce heat or open P&amp;L you you know you cut positions raise trailing stop losses and you stop initiating new trades. So this is really key. This this is a combination of situal situal uh situational awareness experience. Um it it takes time to know this and and often there'll be false starts. I mean, this rally just, you know, took off from the lows, but sometimes you'll have multiple waves down and on each bottom or or or what appears to be a bottom, you'll have stocks set up and break out and they will suck you in and then the rally doesn't materialize and they will sell off and you will give back. So, uh this this is really uh like the art I would say of trading. I mean, you you can you know me mechanize this. I mean, you can have specific rules, but a lot of it is 
[0:27] uh at least for me, it's it's more it's more um it's more feel. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Can we pause on this slide because I think this is so so good. And I think uh and and I strug I struggle with this. I still working on it, but I think there's a lot of traders out there who they miss the start of the rally and they feel pressured. the index is going up and they feel pressured and then they push size or push entries that uh maybe the leaders already extended but those are the ones that that are the leaders so they need to get in them. They enter at the wrong spots get shaken out in natural reactions and then they've got a draw down to start and then they push size again to try to get back. It's like a cascading series of events where if you don't uh start uh getting exposed and testing positions a little bit earlier when yes the the trend is less clear but maybe that's the proper time where you can get maybe tighter entries and actually try to get into one two or three leaders that if you get into them properly can ride for you know the the 
[0:28] trend coming out of it. But I think this is such a great slide. Um, and just uh again speaking from personal experience, I've struggled with this and like you said, I've come up with kind of more of a system, some kind of rules-based approach where the first higher low, I have to start testing some trades as we push off that first higher low or right near the 21 EMA, if we start taking out that 21 EMA, that's when for for my style, for my system, I need to start starting, you know, starting to buy positions if I haven't already because if I've missed that in the past, again, I'm in kind of that uh slippery slope. where it just it doesn't create good h trading habits. So, this is such an important concept, guys. I think especially if you're newer to the game and haven't gone through a few market corrections and and strong rallies from them, uh you can't like like Christian said, you know, it's hard to internalize. You do need some experience, but this is so key, guys. And this is a great site to summarize it. So, um yeah, fantastic. Christian, anything else you want to add on on on this slide based off what I just said or or your own experience with that? &gt;&gt; Oh, yeah. So, you know, I I actually 
[0:29] spoke about this on a there was a YouTube or a talk I had with a few traders the other day about how like the and that was a fantastic rally. Uh I was probably on average 150% long the entire way up and I and I was down 30%. Doing exactly what you said, buying every rally or every, you know, I I miss the initial leaders. I chase the market pulls back, I get stopped out, it rallies back up, I buy it. literally buying the high, selling the low the entire way up the rally. Uh so no, I I I've been there. I you know, I I've made every mistake you can make. Um but you know, I and that's the point of this of of progressive exposures. It gives you the ability to survive the mistakes, survive the learning curve, um and and make it to the other side. And and and that's and yeah, I mean that that that's why this is this is so key. That's why this is so key. And was was that uh that period where you were 150% long and and actually suffered a draw down. Was that 
[0:30] coming out of the 2018 correction or was that at the end of the year coming out of the choppy summer period? &gt;&gt; That was coming out of the 2018 uh that that was coming out of the 2018 like I I think end of year selloff &gt;&gt; inflation. Yeah. Yeah, &gt;&gt; I remember there was a few names, cron, which was like a marijuana stock, and then SE, which I I covered in our interview before where I I watched the episodic pivot go, and then tried to get into the the flag like five times or, you know, however many times, and each time I increased my size, right? The first one, you know, I was like, "Oh man, this is like so great. 1%. Oh, it didn't work. Okay, next, oh, this one has to 1.5. Oh, that didn't work. Next one. 2%. Oh, that didn't work. Next one. this draw down is big. And I this only it only took me, you know, four trades and that that doesn't include the other, you know, I had some winners of course, but you same thing with cron that that looked like it was forming a power play which eventually failed. It didn't work. But I I sized like three or four times into that one as well. Before you know it, you're down 20%. And it's like, okay, well, what you know, what what do I do now? So, you you just never want to get in that position where, you know, 
[0:31] you're in a good market, but you just you handcuffed yourself because you put on too much size and and drew down. So, you know, even if you're very bull, you know, I was very bullish, you know, uh but it doesn't matter. I I you just cannot allow those draw downs. So, you have to you have to control the size and you know, and once you're winning, once you have a few names work, you can ramp, you know, there's no rush. I mean, it's, you know, it's like the first slide, you know, what what what's the rush if if you can make 30% a year for 10, 15, 20 years, I mean, the numbers I mean, you're going to have more money than you can spend. I mean, the numbers get so large. So, it's really about the patience and not, you know, not not seeing the forest, not the trees. You know, like you're in the middle of a forest, you're surrounded by trees, but you know, it's like Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Hit hit some singles before you try to start uh swimming fences. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Fantastic. &gt;&gt; So, yeah. So, simple, not easy. Um that that really sums it up. It's simple. It's not easy. It requires, you know, incredible emotional control, self-awareness, uh and uh 
[0:32] uh and uh uh and uh uh yeah, I mean, Great Minko. Everyone wants to be a market wizard until it's time to do market wizard stuff. Well, market wizard stuff is sometimes if you're not trading well and the market's taking off, you have to slow down. You know, it's the hard but you don't want to slow down. You want to make the money back right now. You want to make the big gains right now. You see everyone making a huge amount of money and you're you're the one guy in the world that's not, which of course is absurd. I promise you there's tons of traders that have gotten chopped up and and and missed the rally. I mean, I that that's that's me. I mean, I I've I've been through that multiple times. It's it's uh it always looks easy in hindsight. Uh real time managing risk trading uh you know you're you're you're fog of war. You know in hindsight you know the generals it's so obvious what they should have done but in real time with you know with with limited information as as well as the emotions is very difficult. Um, I have a friend, you know, my friend who I mentor, uh, he would would tell me that he didn't he wouldn't want to record his trades 
[0:33] because it would it would show him the mistakes he made. It's it was like looking at a mirror, like a reflection of yourself, right? Your equity curve, the trades, everything. It's it's a reflection of of you and and and he didn't like looking at it. And uh but the solutions are so simple, right? It's an extremely humbling uh experience uh looking at your mistakes and you know a lot of guys you know this is the thing with poker uh poker players have massive egos like massive egos. I mean I know some traders do I think trading is much more humbling than poker. I mean it's not even in the same universe. I mean because with poker you can always blame the deck. You can you can always you can always I would &gt;&gt; you can blame the market too though but &gt;&gt; yeah I mean yeah you can blame the market but but it it's it's different. I mean, that's different if if you play both for a while. You know, I I've met so many player poker players with just these massive egos. I I have not met many traders at least that have been around for a while that do simply because trading is so humbling, right? Trading is so humbling. But with poker, 
[0:34] the variance is so wild and because it's a one-on-one or, you know, I guess you're playing as other players, but you're playing as other players, right? It's not it's it's more of it's a relative skill game, not an absolute skill game. So, as long as you play with worse players, you can win. But but trading is not not quite uh not quite so the same. Uh okay. So discipline discipline discipline. Yeah. Have rules stick to them. Sacrifice short-term mental com comfort for long-term goals. Let the power of compounding work for you. you. you. So yeah. So those slides I mean compounding that that that's really that that's the most powerful thing you can do. I mean that that that's that's the magic of of trading is the ability to compound over time and let your money grow and let your money work for you. And then I I hope you guys found that helpful. Uh you know, I'm on Twitter at CFlander 7. And uh yeah, that's it. I think that I think that was only 40 minutes or so. &gt;&gt; It's all good. We've got some questions to talk through. So uh Christian, first of all, thanks for that. Um I think this is so so important uh this topic. Um and 
[0:35] the first question I had for you is uh you know, you talk about, you know, slowing down when things aren't working for you. How many trades would it take for you to say, "Okay, my trades, whatever the market's doing, whatever everybody else is doing, I'm not trading well or I'm not seeing the ball well right now." How many trades would that take to, you know, drop from uh risking whatever your process is, &gt;&gt; right? I mean, two to four. I mean, it it really it depends on on the market environment. Um, you know, I'm not in every breakout. Although, you know, sometimes you wish you were, but you know, I'm not in every breakout, right? So, you know, I'm watching the market and seeing what names are working. Are things going up? Are things going down? Is there general market weak? You know, I'm looking at everything. So, it's it's hard to really give a definite answer, but you know, if you lose three or four in a row, I mean, obviously, it depends on the quality of the trade. I mean, you know, I'm guilty of overtrading, so I will I take trades that are not a setups, right? So, if those don't work, uh, you know, it's it's less meaningful than if if your best setups aren't 
[0:36] working. But, yeah, I I would say a few trades, three, four trades, and I'm and I'm probably going to be cutting size. &gt;&gt; And is it similar on the flip side? Because that's equally important when when a, you know, a correction just happened. You're starting to test trades. How many does it take to ramp up size to to normal? &gt;&gt; Again, you know, you're looking at everything. I mean, you're looking at what the market's doing, what leaders are doing, you know, what sectors are are performing. But yeah, it it I would say it's if you have a few trades that are working and then you get an a setup, then then I'd size for that one. And if that one works, that's like a big green light that okay, you know, I'm the market's working. You know, they're rallying. I'm I'm I'm I'm seeing the ball. You know, you can really ramp aggression at that point. &gt;&gt; Excellent. And maybe using a case study of uh this this most recent correction this year. Um and maybe from a holistic perspective also also like noticing which stocks to try. Uh you know coming out of this correction around when were you starting to test trades and how did you kind of pick the ones to give a shot 
[0:37] in the first place to see if the market was rewarding your style? &gt;&gt; Right. So I uh I was very fortunate that I I actually was was in the market basically at the lows which and I I screwed up a lot of those trades. But um the the I I was able to avoid the selloff and then when you had the cascading increasing losses on the indexes as well as individual stocks, I was paying really close attention to names that were still in intermediate term uptrends like a Palunteer or a Hood or Spotify or Netflix. So I tried Netflix when it broke out of the double bottom. It it undercut the low of the day. I got knocked out and then it took off and I I missed it. Um I tried getting in hood on the second day off off the lows and I got stopped out and that took off without me. I got Palanteer on the day of the lows and that that one just went uh higher. I was able to ride that for a bit and I also bought Hughes the NASDAQ and the lows and I uh panic sold that like uh seven days later after that massive one up day. I I was like what plus 12% the next day was like down seven and I I think I 
[0:38] sold that basically at the lows. Uh so uh yeah I mean I so I I was able to get in you know Palanteer really allowed me to take a lot of trades and then the next I want to say week or two it was extremely volatile and choppy and I think I lost pretty much every trade I took you know when the market was basically just chopping around the moving averages and then when Palanteer formed a double bottom and gapped at like around 99 I sized up for that one and and that gave me the cushion to keep going and then I I mean I posted on Twitter that I was extremely bullish on Coreweave that it it gave It was just like eBay in 1998, like a new uh I mean eBay was like a new internet stock. IPOed right before a brutal bare market. Corweave is a new AI data center play. IPOed right before bare market. It sold off or it rallied then it sold out during the bay. I bought it on at the lows on April 7th. I got knocked out. It went lower. It came up. It it formed a little pivot. It gapped up out of that. I bought it. It stopped me out. It I I took opening range high. It stopped me out. uh and then it just took off and 
[0:39] never and uh I I I wasn't able to get back in. And then on earnings, I tried buying it. Uh after earnings, it it was gapping after hours. I bought that. It stopped me out. The next day, it what what did it do? It uh I think it was it was rallying. I took it over the one minute opening range highs. I got stopped out at the end of the day. It took out it took out the highs. I didn't buy it back. Um because I at that point, I had taken so many losses and I was, you know, I was sizing trying to trying to put because I, you know, had a lot of conviction in the name. I was trying to put size on. To that point, the losses were so large that I was like, geez, I can't, you know, I can't put on the size I want. It's just it's just not responsible for me to continue trading like this. So, I'm I'm going to back off. And I I also missed the nuclear episodic pivots because of that because I had just taken so many losses in Cororeweave as well as Pony. I tried getting in Pony as well after its uh on its earnings. It had formed a little flag. So, I I I missed the initial runup in the nuclear names uh because I you know, I was protecting myself for myself. I mean obviously in hindsight I I should have taken all the nuclear names. I should have taken cororeweave again because I would have made a lot of money and uh you know that would have 
[0:40] been great but you know it's more important to me I'd rather miss out on those gains than than have a large draw down because you know what if core weave did what if it stopped me out again? What if the nuclear repeat failed right? I mean because you I mean obviously in hindsight you know it all work but in real time I don't know if that breakout's going to work and I cannot put on the added risk you know you know if you lose you know six trades in a row and and you're putting trying to put size in like there's no way you're not on tilt. I mean there's absolutely no way you're mentally sound enough to be able to make decisions especially putting on more risk. It's just not a good idea. So at that point I was like I have to slow down and start over. So then I started over small size, waited for A+ setups, waited for my, you know, my bread and butter and then, you know, I'm I'm able to to to continue trading because I, you know, I I I kept the draw under control. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I I I think that that's perfect. And, you know, this year, obviously, the index has gone really well since the correction, but there was a choppy period where I know my trades weren't really working too well uh in later May to June time frame. You know, 
[0:41] I couldn't get too much traction going. it improved a little bit after, but there's going to be periods like that where there's the initial push off where the leaders expand and then it gets choppy and if you're if you're not positioned earlier or you know in the right frame of mind, that's where you can give a lot back if you didn't have that cushion or you know um you know just just not trade well and suffer a draw down that set you back mentally. And like you said, you know, sizing down for you, you know, those themes worked out at at that instance, but you know, maybe also you wouldn't have been in the frame of mind to execute properly like you can in those themes. So, I think that's perfect. Um, one question I did have, you know, starting from a correction, a few trades work. Um, are are you selling those trades outright to then finance other positions or like a palunteer? Are you just kind of holding it and watching your open gains and seeing, you know, if if it's worth, you know, adding risk on and you're kind of you're keeping track of it mentally that you're you're seeing, you know, good 
[0:42] progress. Um, I think that's a big question have. Do you have to sell a winning position to finance other ones or can you kind of use the open profits to finance new ones? &gt;&gt; Right. So, so this is you know I can go back to the slide about uh uh right. So this this is this is the trick, right? Do you do you want to lock in profits to put on more trades or or or you know how aggressive do you want to be with that open risk with that heat, right? Um so that that that's a personal preference, you know, it it depends so much on the on on on the stock. So with balance, you know, if it didn't have earnings, you know, so I sold my balance sheet position before earnings. Um &gt;&gt; I wasn't going to hold through that event risk, but if it didn't have earnings, I I I would have held. I mean, I I like to think I would have held. I mean, I ended I, you know, I sold, but I I probably would have held. I mean, this is, you know, this comes down to the trader. Uh, I do have positions that are still running that I've held for, you know, over a month. Um, yeah, I mean, I'm I'm not really sure to answer that. I mean, yeah, I mean, I I 
[0:43] will if I think it's a new bull market, you know, and and my positions are showing me progress, I I will try to hold at least some of them for for the rally. I mean, for sure. Um I some traders prefer locking in the profits and and then using that to to find you know that open or that closed profit to finance risk in other positions. So I mean it's such a personal decision on on your preference your risk tolerance you know your your your draw down you know what you're willing to accept in terms of you know giving back your your heat or your open P&amp;L. So but yeah I mean at the start of a bull market you know you really want to hold on to those positions if you can &gt;&gt; if you get them. And you you did have that CQ position that you sold and that allowed you to finance some risk that way with those profits. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I yeah, I I mean it feels like I I lost on that trade even though I won, but but yeah, I that that did lock in some profit. Yes. &gt;&gt; So, were you trying that a few times during the correction process on as as we kind of put an upside reversal that looked like it could be an extension low or that was the first time you tried it? Okay. Okay. Okay. &gt;&gt; I mean, I I 
[0:44] I never play bottoms. That's the first time I've ever played a bottom. Uh because it was just so extreme. I mean, I think it was three 4% gaps in a row, but I that is not the way I trade normally. I mean, I buy names at highs. That's not how I trade. I just it was just such an extreme moment. And I remember being I I was gripped by I mean, I I missed the entire sell. I mean, I was in cash or or short of a few names, but I missed it. But I remember just feeling this like gripping fear. I mean, this just like this this incredible feeling of uncertainty. And I remember thinking to myself like you're in cash like what are you what are you terrified of like what you know you're you're fine you're protected but it was just you know just I mean this market gripping fear the headlines were negative I mean futures limit down and I was like gez you know you have Palanteer selling off right into the 150 day um you know if it's going to this is the spot to play a balance if you're ever going to try buying the bottom right if you're ever going to I mean this is this is the spot um I I look back at uh the COVID crash right and Tesla got support at 200 day I believe in in in a similar kind of situation. So I I use that as my 
[0:45] precedent. But yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Excellent. And then I want to see going back to kind of poker. Um what's kind of a similar analogy to progressive exposure? Is it like building up your stack of chips before you're getting too aggressive and just like you said folding hands when you're it's not a sure thing or not the probabilities aren't really in your in your favor? What's kind of similar with poker uh to to this concept? &gt;&gt; Right. Right. So poker is more that so I'll use a hypothetical example. You have a $100,000 bankroll. You play 1020 no limit with a with a max buying of $2,000. Okay? So you're risking when when you sit down at the table, you're risking 2% of your of your total bankroll. Okay? That that would be the equivalent in poker. You have guys with a $100,000 bankroll sitting down with $100,000 in a high stakes game of say, you know, 50100 or or 200400. They put the entire bankroll on the table. That's not for you know that that is 
[0:46] literally all in on, you know, in one trade, you know, risking your entire account. Those guys can go on massive runs, but as you can imagine, they they always give it back. I mean, they always give it back. There's just no risk management. I mean I mean, you know, when I was in college, Rounders, I don't know if you watched Rounders, but that that was like one of my favorite movies. But Mike Mcderman, I mean, he's the perfect example of he literally put his entire account into in one game and he lost. He he lost it all. I mean, the opening scene is he literally loses everything he had. So, and then at the end at the end of the movie, he risks everything he had and potentially his life if he loses, right? I actually had a slide about him uh about how like he wouldn't make it as a trader because you know if you keep taking these all or nothing bets eventually you know even if you're a 90 99% favorite you know if you if you take thousands of trades eventually it is you're going to lose I mean you're going to lose everything. So so yeah that that that's the that's the equivalent for poker with uh with trading. trading. trading. &gt;&gt; Excellent. And could you go to the slide 
[0:47] that's um that compares uh heat with risk if if you don't mind. Um because I thought this was interesting because for me um you know the the bigger draw downs for me are when um I've got a sizable position maybe I've got three uh 15 20% positions in leaders and it's it's it's coming off the top of profits but it still hurts quite a bit. Um, so how do you compare um progressive exposure and just risk management when you're when you're first starting positions versus when they've been trending, they've been doing well, they're they're just, you know, uh they're acting fine, but then they start pulling in off the top. Um because obviously to keep the monthly draw downs, you don't want to give too much back and sometimes even a pullback to the 21 EMA, which is completely normal in a trend, is pretty pretty sizable in in some of these higher ADR leader names. So how do you kind of think about that to to keep those monthly draw downs and overall draw downs, you know, within the parameters that you're looking for, &gt;&gt; right? So in that kind of scenario, so I 
[0:48] I look at the the percentage extended from the moving average. So each stock has its own character in terms of, you know, how extended it'll get, but if it gets really extended from the 21 EMA, then then I'll I'll sell. I mean, I'll sell some or or or most to prevent that kind of equity give back. Um but uh yeah I mean so again you know this this depends on on the trader. Some guys they're to them it's like you know it's it's open P&amp;L. They're willing you know it's not it's not you know risk to you know their initial you know risk. It's it's open P&amp;L. They're willing to risk that to to make more right and if you go back and study uh like the late 90s I mean some of these names they just keep going. They pull back. they'll have these, you know, really fast 25% pullbacks to the 21 EMA, go sideways for a week or two, and then launch and double again. So, it, you know, it obviously there's no guarantee that's going to happen and that might be the time when when it sells off and forms a longer base. But, I mean, yeah, I mean, so it depends so much on the trader on I 
[0:49] mean, you know, I mean, that's a great position to be in, right? To be in three liters, you know, great open profit. I mean, you have the flexibility to to choose what what you want to do. If you want to take some profits, reduce risk, reduce heat, you know, and and try and try to play for a bigger move. It it depends. I mean, Minvini, he'll just sell. I mean, he he'll just he he'll just lock in the profits and take it. Other traders, you know, they have a longer time frame. They're willing to give back that that P&amp;L. You know, this is something you have to discover for yourself what you're okay with, you know, and if you want the best of both worlds, you can sell half, take half, and let the other half ride. It really depends on the trade. I I tend to sell I'll sell more. I mean, I I I it's very hard for me to hold to the 21 EMA. So, I I'll sell more. I'll sell, you know, 70 really extended from the moving averages. averages. averages. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And I know you did some research, you know, looking at your actual entries and how your performance compared to if you held to the the 21 EMA. Can you talk about that that process a little bit because I think that that's a great 
[0:50] exercise for traders out there as they're discovering, you know, what their sell rule should be. Do they want to completely let it pull back or are they better off like you, you know, selling more into strength? And it does depend on how much you're willing to get back and all that. But yeah, could you talk about that research you did? &gt;&gt; Sure. Yeah. So, I I just I I simply looked at all my trades from last year and just changed the exit to a close below the 21 EMA. Like like that was the exit, right? And it like more than doubled my results. Um, of course you don't, you know, it's it's one thing, you know, it's it's kind of like looking at a chart, right, and saying, you know, you should buy here and sell here. Okay, obviously, but you don't deal with the emotions on the way up. The equity give back, the open P&amp;L give back would have been immense at some points. Um, and can can you So, you know, in the past, I did hold to the in the other interview where I had VIPS and I, you know, I was in 10 stocks, they all stopped out except that one. it pulled right back the 50-day and bounced and then I just I I you know like the 
[0:51] pain was too much all all those other losses like kind of accumulated and I was like I just can't deal with this. I'm just going to get out and and I and I and I didn't and I sold it and and it would have kept going. So, you know, this is something you have to decide for yourself. Um what what you can emotionally handle, right? Uh so is it superior to hold to the 21 EMA? Like I I think I mean it is based on my results, you know, when I go back and look at my years of trading. If I held to the 21 EMA, my profits would have been significantly higher. But, uh, h having the ability to do it is, uh, is challenging, especially because, you know, I size large. I mean, I I want to have size on in in my a setups in my names that move, and that makes it more difficult. Um, so, you know, one thing I could do is size smaller initially or sell 80 90% and and hold a small chunk to the 21 EMA. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that that's my solution for me. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And we also discussed last year which I think is really important to talk about. Last year was a really nice 
[0:52] trending year. During some years it might be better to some winter strength. It's more like coming up with a process that works with you works with how you know if you can stomach larger draw down maybe you hold more to to the 21 EMA and try to let that trend work. But like like you said, it's about knowing yourself, knowing what you can handle and um and yeah, it impacts your psyche, all these draw downs because like you said, it happens in all your stocks all at once. It doesn't just happen in one stock and you can be really objective. Uh if you're feeling heat, you're feeling it on your entire portfolio uh and all that. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. And I also want to say, you know, if if you really want to zoom out and look, so if I held to the 21 EMA, right, my results, you know, let's say I did that and last year I was up 800%. Right? Well, the previous few years, there are some years where I I was, you know, maybe slightly up or break even, but if I held to the 21 EMA, I would have been down 20%. Right? So because you know sometimes the rallies they fizzle out and and and and the 21 EMAs is an inferior exit to the to the uh 
[0:53] selling into strength but over the long run it's better by far it's better. So are you willing to potentially have you know say four years right you know 100% return zero you know 000 plus 20 or you know plus 400% return - 10 - 10 - 10 you know so you to give you an example of you know the potential changes in in in results obviously the pl you know the plus 400 with the small losses is way better but emotionally dealing with uh with that is is a whole another thing I mean you know I'm human I would I would like to win every year. I want to win one every year. And if I had to sacrifice returns for one year in order to be positive every year, I would do that. Even though it is it's obviously worse. I mean, at the end of at the end of all that, your dollar amounts less, but emotionally it, you know, and psychologically you can handle it better. better. better. &gt;&gt; And and doing what you do allows you to stay in the game versus whether you're willing to give those draw downs. You're increasing the risk of ruin the increase of big draw downs which could knock you 
[0:54] out and then you're not able to trade for 10 15 you know get that longer term compounding that is the ultimate goal &gt;&gt; right yeah I mean yeah I mean at the end of the day it's a personal thing you have to decide what what's appropriate for you and and and the goal is to compound I mean the goal is to become at least for me is is is you want to have financial freedom you want to be able to provide for the you know the ones you care about uh and uh and yeah I mean and then I mean I Well, I mean, long-term, you know, if you if you really make it, you can you can do to help, you know, I would love to be able to help more people, you know, but that's, you know, that's that's a longer term goal. But that that's those are all things that, you know, again, that that's why at the start I talked about, you know, &gt;&gt; you know, why the why is so important because if you don't have a really powerful why, it's going to be hard to to survive through the adversity because, you know, trading it's it's really tough. You know, I'm going to refer to my friend again who I've been who's been transitioning from poker to trading. And I remember he would tell me, you know, hey, uh, you know, why aren't you running five strategies? Why 
[0:55] aren't you always in the market? You know, you're you're leaving money on the table. Why don't you trade crypto? It's are you talking about? Like that's crazy. I mean, it's like I want to be in cash. I don't want to constantly have positions on. I mean, it's it's like, you know, the stress. And and now, you know, this year he's he's done fantastically well after I mean, he's he's a crazy boom and buster as well. And then this year he's he's you know it's it's he he gets it. Like he finally gets it. And and he's told me, "Wow, like you're you're right. Like it's the stress, you know, like like the mental fatigue from from holding large positions and letting them trend like it's taxing." So he he he gets it now. &gt;&gt; Is he trading a similar way or is he using other strategies? &gt;&gt; Yes, he trades a similar way. He trades more aggressively than I do. &gt;&gt; Yeah. what what's what's that process like do you think transition from poker to uh trader is there a lot of new stuff that you have to learn or it seems like he's picked up it relatively quickly obviously he's got the benefit of uh getting to chat with you who's gone 
[0:56] through that same process but um I can imagine it's tough but there's also probably a lot of helpful things that poker teaches you that translate well &gt;&gt; right so I think I mentioned this in the interview before but the big thing with poker is that anytime you have an edge you have to maximize it you you have to go for it any chance you And you have to be extremely aggressive uh when you see the opportunity. So you know you you obviously are extremely willing to take risk and and when you see an opportunity you you are just aggressively pyramid. So I mean he I mean he has that and I always told him look you know he didn't realize how much of a strength that is that you know most traders are riskaverse because most of the guys like him blow up and he's blown up you know multiple times right. So the big thing with with poker is is is the aggression. I think you know like like the w winning poker players are extremely aggressive. You just have to be you know you cannot sit back and be passive in poker. You have to be aggressive. You have to win pots when you have draws and you don't have the best hand. You can't just sit back and wait for the nuts. So so 
[0:57] definitely the the aggression and the risk takingaking. Um but you have to control it, right? And and he didn't control it. he would start losing and he'd go on tilt and he and he'd increase his size and then you know he I mean he could blow up in like a week. I mean it, you know, trading crypto on leverage and some of those like bucket shops. I mean you you blow up real fast. So for him I always told him look if you can learn to control the draw downs like the sky's is the limit. It's just you have you have to do it. Like I can't sit there and make you control yourself. Like you have to be the one like you're clicking the buttons not me, right? like you have to control it otherwise you're you're just going to be in this endless cycle of boom and bust boom and bust boom and bust. bust. bust. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; What what did you what was kind of your initial advice to him about risk management, setting stops, all of that? Uh you know, how how is risk management different in in trading versus poker and what what what kind of adjustments do you need to make? &gt;&gt; Right. So, first off, what when I when I told my friends I was going to switch 
[0:58] from poker to trading, they thought I was crazy. Like like what are you doing? like, you know, you're a great player. You know, you you've done extremely well. Why? I'm like, well, I you know, I don't want to be sitting at at a computer clicking the mouse a 100 times a minute for the next, you know, 20 plus years. You know, I, you know, I I love the markets. I love the freedom, the the flexibility, the time. I mean, the time is huge. I mean, time is is the most valuable thing you have. And, you know, I want to be able to spend time with my children, you know. So my why was I I wanted to have the freedom to spend time with my kids when they're young, you know, because 95% of the time you spend with your kids is before they turn 18, which is sad, but it's like, you know, I but it's just it's the truth. You know, I want to spend time with them while I still can. So that was a very powerful why for me to make that transition because you go from being an expert at something to being a total beginner, right? Right. I mean, you know, obviously some of the skills help, but that, you know, that it's it's it's a huge it's a huge pill to sw you know, it's it's a massive pill to swallow your ego pill. I mean, your ego, you go from being an expert to being a total 
[0:59] beginner, right? So, uh, but in terms of risk management, I mean, poker has that, you know, I I think I'm trying to remember. I think you don't want you want to have ideally 100 buyins for whatever stake you play. So, if you play want to have a h 100red buyins. So, you want to have what? You want to have $200,000. I mean that that's gen in general. Now if you're aggressive you can you can try to move up stakes with going to move up with only 20 buyins so that' be you know $40,000 at 1020. You you want to be very quick to drop down if you start losing. So you know that's something that poker players really struggle with because as you move up stakes in poker the players get tougher. Like the pros you know the higher you go the better the pros are. So but but but you want to level up. you want to play uh you know, you want to play in bigger games and make more money, but you you deal with tougher competition. So, it's if it's very common when players would try to move up, they would get knocked back down because the pros are tougher. You know, you're not used to the aggression at at the higher stakes. So, 
[1:00] you know, going back and forth between stakes is very common as players are trying to transition and and move up. And and that's something I've experienced with my trading is that, you know, as you win and your account grows, you know, because I'm I'm I'm really trying to compound is that the dollar amount gets bigger and that increases the emotion and that increases the errors. So being able to control yourself uh when the dollar amount gets bigger, that that's a whole another skill um that you kind of learn by doing. But, you know, I I I push myself I try to push myself through the errors that I make and and focus on on the bigger goal of continuing to compound. Are you focused much more when there's a potential trade? Are you much more focused on uh the risk side of things now versus the potential like get, you know, nailing the entry? Obviously, that's part of risk management, but uh you know, is risk management the focus now when when when you're trading? &gt;&gt; Yes. I mean, I I' I've been through a happen again. So, yes, I'm extremely 
[1:01] focused on the risk. And like I said, where I had the the core weave and pony trades where I like got whacked. I mean, I I I could have very easily just kept sizing and going for it and it would have worked out because, you know, it's a powerful market and I I would have gotten bailed out. But, you know, you you are setting yourself up for a brutal draw down when it doesn't work out because, you know, if it doesn't work out, it can get very ugly. So it's it's very important because you know the good times always end sadly you know eventually there will be a bare market after a bull market and when that happens you know thankfully this last one there there you know it it was it was sharp and quick and then there weren't that many false I don't think there really any false rallies with leaders setting up but there will be bare markets where you get multiple rallies where it looks like it's over and it's not and and and everything fails and if you get knocked out of those names and you see other names today I'm like Okay, well, you know, that was the bottom. It's time to go. And you size up. And then those fail. Everything fails. And now, you know, and and that happens, you know, three, four, 
[1:02] five, I mean, 2000 to 2003, there was like like 10 plus rallies that all failed. And if you were just constantly sizing up, trying to cash the bottom and you got obliterated. So, you know, it's it's very important to to to think long term and again, focus on the compounding aspect of it to keep the losses and try as small as possible. &gt;&gt; Excellent. And could you go to the slide with the Marking quote about market wizard things? Uh because when when I when I read this quote initially, um obviously risk management is is huge and keeping small losses is definitely a market wizard thing, but it also reminded me of um the work that you showcased in the previous podcast we did about studying leaders and and that helps just build the mental blueprint about how to manage a trade. What does a A+ trade look like versus uh not? uh do you want to talk a little bit about um or or could you talk a little bit about how you organize things, what you've kind of studied that has helped your process and helped shorten the learning curve for you? 
[1:03] &gt;&gt; Sure. You know, the big thing is is going back and studying previous market leaders because that that that gives you the confidence that they're always going to come back. They'll always be a leader and then in a strong rally you'll get multiple chances uh to make a return. You know, it's not like, you know, if if you miss, you know, Hood or Palance here at the start of the rally. I mean, you know, obviously everyone wishes they they somehow caught it there, but if you don't like there there's plenty of other stocks that will break out and go and even if you missed, let's say you missed everything up to this point, okay? Well, guess what? A lot of these names haven't even formed a second stage base yet. Like that was the first base. Now they double and then they form the second stage base. And you could argue that that that next base will actually be easier because, you know, take a stock like Rocket Lab, right? It it's it's gone. on. I mean, it's it's doubled from it from its base. The next base it forms, it's going to be at all-time highs. Okay? There's going to be no overhead supply. So, it's much more likely you get a smooth breakout, a smoother breakout that time. So, so yeah. So, so going back and studying 
[1:04] history and realizing these moves, they last for a very long time and there's lots of chances to get on board and you don't need to be in a rush. You don't need to feel FOMO. The opportunities will always be there. And and let's say you you miss this rally and and then they set up again and you miss that one, too. Well, too. Well, too. Well, there'll be another one like you know like you know the guys were asking me the other day about corewave like you missed cororeweave you know and I'm like yeah the worst thing is to be super bullish have conviction in name and and it's not even missing it but losing money on it you know and missing it right like how does it get any worse than that but I'm like look it's okay you know there'll be another core weave there will be another I mean I mean I have theories on on this rally but I I you know I think it's going to get I think it's going to I think it's going to be like the late 90s I I I I I really do. I I think there's going to be just unbelievable opportunity in the next few years. Um so, you know, there's going to be plenty of chances to get it back up to the plate and and and take swings and and you just have to connect with a few and and you can have a great return. 
[1:05] &gt;&gt; Excellent. And just to bring it back to progressive exposure risk management and to summarize a little bit uh you know it's basically bending with the punches sizing up when uh trades are working. You said two to four you'll you'll size up a little bit or to to the max parameter that you have and then similarly when maybe the market's not right maybe you're just not right when you start seeing uh trades not work out you're you're sizing down a little bit. Um and also it seemed like uh it's not just your trading it's also a holistic view. You know what is stuff on your watch list doing? what are leaders doing in the market taking account that um is is that a good good summary of kind of the key points that you want to share with people today? &gt;&gt; Yes, definitely. Yes. So, you know, if you know, for instance, like today, you know, there's a lot of speculative stuff. I mean, I haven't looked at the market in the last 30 minutes, but there's a lot of speculative names, you know, breaking out and and going today. So that would give me more uh I don't know if conviction is the right word but but but yeah I guess more conviction that that you know the breakouts are that you know that it's still risk on basically right. 
[1:06] &gt;&gt; Um yeah but but what but your summary was was was very accurate. Yes. &gt;&gt; Excellent. um any other key takeaways or just general advice that you think um you you'd like to leave everybody watching here today with any less um guidance or or key points about risk management or progressive exposure? Yeah, it it would be uh wi with uh the comp the compounding just that that keep a long-term view of things and realize you know that you know I I think that a kagger you know while challenging you know this is not easy right but it it's attainable and you can see if you can maintain that consistency and longevity that the returns are phenomenal right like like don't be in a rush rush rush Don't worry. If you have the discipline and the patience, it'll work out. I mean, it'll work out. I mean, and and and you can you can see, you know, the long-term returns, you 
[1:07] know, what what's possible. Oh, and I also wanted to point out that I don't know if I did the trailing &gt;&gt; The trailing 20-year Kagger for SPY is Will that sustain? Maybe that's a bit elevated, but that that's still, you know, those are fantastic numbers and you can see, you know, the power of just investing in the cues. So, you know, if trading is not for you, you you got you got the cues to buy and and and and you know, if you hold it for 30 years, I mean, may maybe it's not 15%, maybe it's and you get the advantage of uh compounding without paying tax and and it's a long-term capital gain. So, there's that as well. &gt;&gt; Excellent. Yeah. be involved somehow whe what whether it's trading or investing. &gt;&gt; Oh, there's a great there's a great analogy. Sorry to interrupt you, Richard, but uh &gt;&gt; it it's um I can't remember where I where I saw this, but you know, my kid loves playing Monopoly and uh I had, you know, I'm trying to teach him about investing and and and the power of of compounding and investing and uh 
[1:08] I I can't remember where I read this, but basically, you know, not investing is like playing Monopoly and not buying any property. It's like you just go around and collect your $200 every game. Now, obviously, life, you know, monopoly is not life, you know? You can't you can't win at life. I mean, you you can win. I mean, winning at life is is is is getting what you want out of life. I mean, that that's winning, right? What whatever that may be. Maybe for some people it's like I just want to play tennis twice a week, you know? I I love being able to maybe I want to retire early. Maybe, you know, I want to be able to spend more time with my kids. I want to, you know, whatever it is, right? But uh investing gives you the potential to have financial freedom and and and to be able to live a you know a more fulfilling life. So that that's that's something that I I try to pass on to them. to them. to them. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I I think that's a a beautiful message. Uh Chris, thank you so much for your time. Appreciate it. Uh I definitely recommend to everybody watch our uh previous podcast. We'll probably 
[1:09] link it down below. really excellent stuff going through his trades and process and deeper into a lot of the concepts we talked about today. Uh we'll we'll link that down below. Uh but I hope you guys enjoyed. Uh leave a like if you did and uh we'll be back right right back with the next presenter. And Chris, thank you again uh for your time and uh we'll see you guys uh in the next one. Cheers. [Music] 