
[0:00] I remember I made like a,000% a couple times in those options. So, I just thought I was the genius. I borrowed money against my credit card, got the cash advances, and sent that money in, $25,000 in, and [music] opened my account at Generic Trading. &gt;&gt; Today, we sit down with Brian Shannon, a professional trader for over 35 years. He's a founder of alphatrens.net, author of two influential books in technical analysis, and the godfather of the anchored VWAP. [music] I was a believer in positive earning surprises. It was such an easy pitch and the analyst was expecting this. Do you know what they did? Oh, you don't know what they did? They did 10 times that and the revenues are up 236%. How would you describe your objective as a trader in a few sentences? How do you describe your overall style? &gt;&gt; So, my overall style is swing trade with a trend using multiple time frames. My key tools are simple moving averages and the anchored volume weighted average price. I never try to fight the trend. Every time I do, I seem to get burned. 
[0:01] You got to do it at some point in your life. Bet on yourself. And the thing is, I was too naive to be scared. I just believed it was going to work. Don't argue with the market. Look at the market and manage risk. &gt;&gt; Did you have any major trades that were setbacks, you know, big losers. [music] Just had my first son. My wife was pregnant with our other son. No other source of income. This was my life savings. And I was trading a stock called Chantel [music] Pharmaceutical. I had my account up to like 26 27,000 and then &gt;&gt; Hey everyone, welcome back to another episode. As always, we bring top traders, US investing champions, and market wizards here onto the show to share their journeys, their strategies, the mistakes they made throughout their careers, and key learnings that they want to pass on to you guys to save you time, save you money, and improve your performance. We've been lucky enough to hear back from many viewers over the past few years about how much of a positive impact this podcast has had on their trading journeys. And we're incredibly grateful for all the support. If you're looking for a free, quick, and easy way to give back to us and show us 
[0:02] some goodwill, please double check that you're subscribed down below. And if you aren't, go ahead and click that button. And with that said, thanks again for your support. And sit back, relax, and enjoy. enjoy. enjoy. [music] All right, welcome back everybody to the Trailland podcast. I'm your host Richard Mglin. This episode is brought to you by Dy Charts. I got the link down below in the description uh for a special offer and to check out the new DPU AAI. Joining us today on the podcast is Brian Shannon, professional trader and the founder of Alpha Trends. He's also an author of two excellent books that we'll get to very shortly. And he's the godfather of the anchored the WAP, which we'll get into as well. Uh Brian, a real pleasure to be doing this with you. Thank you so much for taking the time and yeah, looking forward to this. Welcome. Welcome. Welcome. &gt;&gt; Thanks for coming out to Denver and getting make it happen. &gt;&gt; I'm happy to. And we got we were maybe getting hit by a fluke snowstorm the the days that we're recording this, but everything worked out, so it's all good. Um to start, Brian, I'd love to kind of bring it back all the way to the 
[0:03] beginning. And was it your your father who first got you interested in the markets? Can you tell me a little bit about that story and yeah how you first got interested in in the stock market and I don't even know if trading at that point more investing what what was kind of going on there. I really was never an investor. So, you know, it was through my dad. He would watch Wall Street Week. I'd watch that with him. And when I was about 14, I think, uh, there was a company on the local news, Lowjack. Uh, it intrigued me. You know, I was I was a hustler when I was a kid. I was catting newspaper roots, selling gum in school, selling candy, and, you know, all that stuff. So, I had some money saved up, and I said, "Hey, Dad. I'd like to buy the stock in Lowjack." He goes, "Great idea. It's five bucks a share." I said, "Cool." like, you know, how do I buy a shares at five bucks and it in the next three months it went up. It doubled. So he gave me the leverage basically 10 to1 leverage and I was hooked right then and there. That was my first trade ever. It 
[0:04] was three months which is still on the longer side of my average hold today. I I I still work on that. I want to be a longer term holder and I do some with indexes, but for individual stocks that's kind of longterm for me. Um, so with that first one, I was I was hooked. It was uh right then and there I knew I knew that's what I wanted to do. &gt;&gt; Was he a trader or investor or he just was kind of uh you know willing to you know help you out and and uh get you started? started? started? &gt;&gt; Yeah, he was a physician so uh he would just be a casual investor really. Um but he got me interested. So &gt;&gt; cool. And from that point, did you keep making trades? Where how did kind of you how did you kind of transition from just getting interested into it to finally making this a career? I know you, you know, started, you know, getting involved with prop firms, starting your own trading desk out here in Denver. Maybe take me through that progression. &gt;&gt; Sure. I had a couple little trades in between that really didn't add up to anything. Um, and then right out of 
[0:05] college or during college, I I was kind of dabbling again, and um, I was reading the Cabbat Market letter, which is still around today. Um, and they had they they had a number of successful stocks, and there was another one that I think was five or six bucks a share. It was called Advanced Polymers, and I don't remember what they did, but it was APOS. Was it &gt;&gt; something with polymers? &gt;&gt; Yeah. And it sounded cool. I think it I think what they were trying to do actually was to make these like basic little mini sponges that go into glue uh gum to make the flavor last longer, which sounds like just awful in terms of digesting it and microplastics and all that stuff, but we didn't, you know, we didn't even think about that stuff back then. Um, so that one I also had, you know, really good success within a short period of time. I sold that pretty much as I was graduating college and then got a um a job as a broker at uh a little brokerage firm called Thomas James in 
[0:06] downtown uh Boston. Stayed there for about uh two three months. It was it was basically a bucket shop. I mean it was crazy what they were charging people for commissions with, you know, the bid and ass spread and and hiding, you know, big commissions in it. So, I got a job at uh Lehman Brothers in Boston. Started out as a cold caller. Actually, the way they start you out is they start you out as a dialer. So, you just have &gt;&gt; dialer. &gt;&gt; You have two phones in front of you and you would just dial the number and as soon as you have a live person, the person on the card in front of you, you say, "Mr. Molden, I have a call for you. One moment, please." And then say, "Like two." And then, so then a qualifier would come in. The qualifier would say, "Mr. Mowglin, we understand you're involved in the stock market. Tell me a little bit about yourself. I want to, you know, come back to you once or twice a year with a excellent idea. You know, what are you typically growth in, you know, income?" Uh, so then that person 
[0:07] would qualify the lead and then they would give it to uh an account opener or that person might be the account opener as well. So, two weeks later, they call back, "Hey, we got a great deal for you." never believe what a good idea this is. And then try to open the account. So, you had to do a minimum of a $10,000 trade. And this was 1991. So, right out of college, it seemed like a ton of money to me. And I was I wasn't the best salesman. I was okay, but I wasn't comfortable asking for like $100,000 orders and $250,000 orders. That came with time, which, you know, it just starts to more normalize. Um, and then you know once you succeed as a dialer, you get to be the qualifier, the account opener, and then if you open 10 accounts a month for $10,000, three months in a row, then you become a Leman Brothers broker. And it was just a cold call operation. I mean, it was just all 
[0:08] on the phones all day long. So I had months where I did 12, then I did nine, and then I did 11, then I did seven. I was like, I'm never going to get 10 in a row. So I went to a different brokerage firm, Tucker Anthony, stayed there for about six months and then moved to uh Denver in late ' 91. So then I, you know, worked at Thomas J, I'm sorry, uh that was prior uh Dane Bosworth here in Denver. worked for them for a year and a half, two years, and then started as a uh prop trader at Generic Trading, which is uh Carlin Equities, which I don't think either of them still exist, but they used to advertise in the back of IBD saying 25 to1 leverage or 21 20 to1 leverage. You need $25,000 to start. So, I quit being a broker, you know, had saved my money up, quit being a broker. There was a good story actually in there about getting the funding for that. um and then you know was a broker uh I'm sorry was you know traded with them for 
[0:09] about two and a half years and then started my own brokerage uh with Landmark Securities in downtown Denver with another uh with a partner at that time. So out of that I created a technical analysis class because we would get customers in they wouldn't know what they're doing so well we'll do a class and that kind of got me interested in you know teaching and I realized that was kind of a natural add it people like you know always gave me good reviews on it so um that firm got bought out by another firm uh that um called Marketwise and at Marketwise um I became their head of prop trading and their and also their head of I I started as head of education and a trader. So I traded their money and then they had a prop trading department that the guy who built it didn't know what he was doing. So that became one of my responsibilities as well and that lasted 
[0:10] about five years I think and that's where I first actually started doing videos recording you know doing screen shares and that sort sort of thing. So that was um that was probably about uh 2006 that that wrapped up. Uh and then I went to you know just I just did my own thing. I was just trading and uploading videos to YouTube because that's what I was &gt;&gt; Well before YouTube we were talking about this earlier. It was two years. It was a Google video or &gt;&gt; it it was Google video and Google before Google bought out YouTube for what seemed like an ungodly sum of money back then, which they've just made so much money on. Um, so yeah, I I just was doing that on a daily basis and the audience kept growing. I didn't have any plans for what to do with it. And then Howard Linden at Stock Twits contacted me and said, "Hey, Brian, do you want to start a subscription product?" I said, "That sounds great. You know, I I don't know how to do it. that's why I haven't done it. So, they handled all that and 
[0:11] that was kind of the birth of Alpha Trends as a subscription. I had alphat trends.blogpot.com which was a free site where I was just, you know, kind of getting my name out there. I did I really didn't have any plans with it. &gt;&gt; And you've got some blogs from way back in the day of concepts that we'll talk about today that you're still using like the wait, you know, gap up, wait for the reclaim of the anchor view up, but we'll talk about that. Um when when did you start using technical analysis? Was that from the very beginning or did that kind of evolve as you gained more experience and kept learning and kept and and who kind who kind of you know took you under your wing if so or was it more self-taught that you kind of developed your style? &gt;&gt; Little both. So uh at uh the first trade you know after co at during after college was that advanced polymer and in the cabinet market letter they always had a chart. I said, "Buy it if it gets above five or six bucks a share. I don't remember the price." And I thought, "Wow, why why would any want to pay 
[0:12] more?" And then you look at the chart and it made 100% sense. Why? Uh you could just look at and say, "Well, it's never been above that level, so you know, everyone's winning. Like, who would sell? It doesn't make sense." Um so that kind of piqued my interest. Then I decided I need to learn a little bit about this. So, I would always be going to the uh bookstore and reading Money Magazine and Kiplingers and all this stuff. Then I found Stan Weinstein's book, Secrets for Profiting Bull and Bear Markets and that really was a light bulb moment for me to see that cyclical flow through the market and that really just kicked off my passion for technical analysis. It made complete sense. So I went from that book to John Murphy's book um which are more like patter traditional pattern analysis and then I would just pretty much devour any you saw on my bookshelf. Yep. &gt;&gt; Um devour pretty much anything I could find on technical analysis. So when I 
[0:13] was at Lehman Brothers, that's when I first um you know, I had been reading the IBD at Thomas James, but at Lehman Brothers, I first saw the daily graphs chart books because the the broker I worked under uh his name was Michael Collins, and he kind of taught me to blend the fundamentals and the technicals. Now I definitely veer much more towards technicals but he was all about positive earning surprises. That's where I learned that. So a big catalyst the earnings up on big volume and post announcement drift. Um so you know the things that still work today and still drive large institutions. So Zach was the big earnings company back then who would you know they would tell you what the earning surprises were and now it's like just all right there 10 seconds later. Um, so Mike Collins taught me, he didn't he didn't teach me so much because he was kind of a he was kind of 
[0:14] a rough boss. He was just like, you know, get the done and, you know, we don't discuss it. Just just do it. Um, but I, you know, was curious, so I was like always leaning over and, you know, he'd go to the bathroom, I'd go rumaging around his desk looking at what charts he's looking at because he was wasn't always telling me. So, uh, you know, I was kind of sneaky about it, but out of intellectual curiosity. &gt;&gt; Hey everyone, just want to jump in here real quick and let you know that this episode is brought to you by DFW, which is the platform I use every single day to find new trading ideas, monitor existing positions, identify new leading themes, and analyze the markets. You guys deserve a platform that keeps innovating, and brings you the most up-to-date tools to trade the market. And at DFW, almost every single week, we're launching a new feature or system update. Here's what makes DFW different. The screener comes loaded with preset screens from actual market wizards and top traders. So, you're starting from the setups that the best in the world actually use. And when you're flipping through results, you've got mini charts 
[0:15] right there, so you can visually scan through hundreds of stocks all at once. That alone saves me so much time every single week. The charting is built for how we actually trade. Multiple time frames, unlimited indicators, included Ankor, VWAP, enhanced volume, custom indicators like RMV, and the built-in RS rating. You've got custom dashboards to track the market themes and real-time sector rotation so you always know where the money is flowing. Best yet, we just launched the DFW AI terminal which brings all your research into DV with easytouse preset prompts or your own custom ones. You can even identify gap catalyst with just a right click. We set up an exclusive offer of one free month for all Trader Line podcast listeners. So to activate your trial today, check out the link down below in the description or visit dv.com/mpodcast. That's dv.commpodcast. And with that, let's get back to the interview. interview. interview. &gt;&gt; Excellent. And did you through throughout this whole progression, did you have any major trades that were setbacks, you know, big losers? Maybe at that point you were risking, you know, a 
[0:16] much larger portion of your account than you do now? Um any significant drawbacks that kind of taught you a key lesson or you remember because we always remember the bad trades more than the winners. For sure. You know, initially when I was at Lehman Brothers, I didn't I I I was just like in this magic zone and it was EMC, which isn't a company anymore. They were data storage. And EMC was a red hot stock. I mean, it would it would go from uh, you know, 1920 to 3035, it'd split three for two and then it would do it again three or four months later, just like six splits in a row. And every time it split and it started to settle down, I remember I was always buying the uh 2250 calls and it was EMC whatever X was a symbol. CX was March X because you only had monthly back then. So A was January, B was February, C and then X was 2250. I remember I made like 
[0:17] a,000% a couple times in those options. So, I just thought I was the genius. Um, and I was doing and and and I learned a lot and I, you know, some of Mike's picks as well. Uh, Unicus was a great one. Unicus was, uh, I think it was about a $7 stock and it went to 12 and I bought common shares of that. Did well. And that kind of really So, I was making more. So, at less I was making $5 an hour and if I opened a $10,000 account, I'd get a $100 bonus. So the most I was making was a,000 bucks per, you know, well 12 I think for 13 was my highest. hour. So I was making a lot more money in the market. So I really didn't work so much on my sales skills. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; I would because you wanted to be a trader. That's that's what you were there for. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Exactly. So I I was like, man, I I don't want to just bug people on the phone, get hung up on all day long. And so, you 
[0:18] know, I would steal his where he'd be done with his IBD book and I'd take it out of the trash, bring it home and just pour over it, look at every little detail. Um, so that really, you know, got me hooked. And I didn't have my bigger I I didn't really have my bigger losses till I went till I almost went out on my own. Um, but as a broker, what I learned was there were stocks that you could tell your customers about and there were stocks you traded for yourself and they, you know, so the higher octane stuff was more like, oh, keep that to yourself because you could blow your customer up. Um, but even the so-called safe stuff, um, you know, I I used to get around and say I got to practice with other people's money and and basically as a broker I did. And it wasn't, you know, negligent or malicious, but I got to practice with other people's money and and, you know, 
[0:19] they would trust me to give them a good idea. And I would not always recommend what the firm was recommending um you know at at Dane Bosworth in particular because I I was a believer in positive earning surprises and it was such an easy pitch and the analyst was expecting this. Do you know what they did? No, you don't know what they did. They did 10 times that and the revenues are up 236%. What do you think's going to happen to the price of the stock? Exactly. That's why you're in for a thousand shares. Okay, let's do it. Um, but then a couple of those I, you know, mistimed them. I didn't realize I was buying extended and, you know, hurt some people. Not not like bad, but, you know, hurt them. I mean, if if if if I was the customer, and I felt bad and I, you know, that's just the way life goes. Um, so they would lose some money, I'd feel bad about it, and I think, you know, I really don't want to do this. So, I kept looking at that back of the IBD and I was trading in aggressive stock. 
[0:20] So, I had maybe I don't know like $12,000 in an account at that time. Just had my first son. My wife was pregnant with our other son and no other source of income. This was my life savings. And I was trading a stock called Chantel Pharmaceuticals, which was a wrinkle cream company. and I was, you know, trading it really well. I had my account up to like 26 27,000. I put in my notice, said two weeks, I'm done. I'm going to go be a trader. They all thought I was nuts, which was probably true. Um, and then so on a Friday, I took a Friday off of work. Was it No, I took I I I went skiing that weekend and took a Monday off of work. And you know I didn't have quotes. We didn't you know didn't have the laptop with quotes on it at that time. This was So I called the office my assistant and 
[0:21] said hey you know give me a quote on CHTL and I think it closed the weekend at 24. She goes uh it's 168 you know 16 and three/4ers or something like that. I like no no CHTL. She yeah it says there's news. I was like, I was just I rate. I just put in my notice and I had, you know, the clock was ticking. I had, you know, now nine days left. Um, so Baron's did a piece on him and said, you know, it's it's not a pharmaceutical. It's not an anti-rinkle cream. It doesn't work. It's just complete Um, so I sold that stock, had like maybe 13 or $14,000 left, and you know, I did a couple little trades, maybe made another thousand, $2,000, and then my notice was in, and I didn't want to say, "Oh, no. I want to still be a broker." So, I borrowed money against my credit cards, got the cash advances, and sent that money in, the $25,000 in, and opened my 
[0:22] account at Generic Trading. This is not financial advice. It &gt;&gt; was definitely an age of bucks. &gt;&gt; But you know what? In a way it is. In a way it is because when you're young, right? I I was 24 20. I was 25 years old. You got to you got to take that kind of risk at some point in your life. If you're 60 and you just retired and you know there's your nest egg, now you're going to go for it. You put 10% of your money aside and trade with that. But you got to do it at some point in your life. that on yourself. And the thing is, I was too naive to be scared. I just believed it was going to work. Um, so, you know, with that Chantel Pharmaceuticals trade, it g it wasn't a pharmacy at all. The name still cracks me up. Um, with that experience, it really taught me about risk management. So, here I put up 25 grand. Half was borrowed, so half 
[0:23] stock, half cash. people know what that means. means. means. &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; and then all of a sudden I had an account with access to 20 to one leverage leverage leverage &gt;&gt; and you know, so I started to trade in it with some leverage, maybe two to four times leverage, but I don't think I ever went to full leverage. It just I I I couldn't. I was too afraid to blow up. So I was making money, you know, nice and steady, consistent, not nothing big, you know, two, three grand, sometimes seven, uh, on a good month. And then um I had the opportunity to I I I became friends with the owner, Ron Shear, um and said, "We need to open an office in Denver. I've got these guys who have an office." Uh so helped them open an office. That didn't work out for me because I kind of they raised my commissions. They kind of squeezed me out. Baron was a true gentleman and he you know set me up and um you know gave 
[0:24] me a piece off the side for for setting them up. So I worked with them for a couple months and then started my own brokerage uh my own office not my own brokerage. So I had been uh series 7 licensed and then I got my series 24 which is uh branch manager so I could bring traders in and let them trade. Um, and that's where, you know, I started the class. And we had the big 22-in cathode ray tube monitors. Uh, so that was, uh, kind of how I really got started in full-time trading. &gt;&gt; Nice. And, uh, flipping the page a little bit, um, looking back on all the books that you've read, like you said, you you love to dive in and and learn wherever you could. Um, what were some of the most meaningful or what would you recommend traders I guess watching this start with? Um, and I know you brought some some some from your library here. So, maybe walk us through each and give a 
[0:25] brief description and and why you think it might help a lot of folks out there. &gt;&gt; Okay. Number one most influential in my career, Stan Weinstein's book. Hands down. You can see the influence in my first book all over the place with that. Um, and Stan's a true gentleman. You know that as well. Um and then um as far as combining fundamentals and technicals, William O'Neal, how to make money in stocks. Um after that, reminiscence of a stock operator. That one was kind of open your eyes to what real speculation can be and, you know, really going for it. But it also, you know, to me the biggest lesson in this book is is risk management cuz he blew up over and over again and finally couldn't take it and took his life and well yeah he's not my hero. I mean I heroics for trading tons of wisdom in the book but as far as a hero the guy was a disaster. &gt;&gt; He he needed to go fishing and go skiing 
[0:26] a little bit I think. Yeah, absolutely. He had but yeah, he was just kind of a little imbalanced, I think. And you know that he they should make that into a movie, by the way. I I've been saying that for years. Um after that, I picked up this book. I Well, not in order, but uh what's it called again? How charts can help you in the stock market by William Giler. And the thing I like about this book a lot is it goes through the patterns. you it goes through the cup and handle the ascending triangle but it goes through supply and demand and it goes through emotion what are other people what are the participants thinking so it really delves into the psychology and that was really an eye openener for me to to kind of as Kenan and I who've done a couple articles and we've got another project we're working on uh have an article wrote an article called humanize the charts and that's just understanding that it's not just a cup and handle it's not it's just you know it's not this these squiggles. This inverted head and shoulders pattern is 
[0:27] not just the pattern. It's lower high and lower low followed by a higher low then a higher high. That's it. It's just a simple trend change. Um so I love that book for that because it really opened my mind into saying okay these are human emotions represented the aggregate psychology of the market. And then a more recent book, The Perfect Stock, &gt;&gt; Taser, right? &gt;&gt; Uh by Brad Kadeshwar. And this is about Taser, now Axon. And the thing that really struck me with this book is I was trading Taser really aggressively during this run and how a 7,000% move was set up, started, and finished in an astounding 70 uh 52 weeks. Um I remember it specifically because I was making a lot of money with it. And then I made some mistakes with it because taser was at that time and and now I like to say there's no such thing as up too much if there's still buyers. Well, I thought it 
[0:28] was up too much at a certain time. So I would try to short it and there were never shares available to short and I saved a lot of money through that. But then I got so clever and found out there was TASRW was TASRW was TASRW and they were trading in in parody because they were in the money and you could borrow the warrants. So I made a couple trades short, made, you know, few grand here and there and then one time I held on to long and you know it was a bigger loss than it was it was bigger than the loss. It wasn't sorry it wasn't bigger than the aggregate that I made on the upside. So let's say I made an aggregate 100,000. I might have lost, you know, 40 or 50 shorting the warrants, which was just stupid because that was pretty much all in two or three trades, whereas on the way up it was maybe 20 trades. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Were Were you swing trading taser like a similar style to what you use now or &gt;&gt; actually I held things a little bit 
[0:29] longer even back then? Um, and it might partially be because the technology wasn't still as advanced. Um, I didn't have one minute charts to invent things on. Um, and you know, on daily VWAPS, you know, it was prior to VWAP trading for me. So, it, you know, so in some ways I'm just kind of thinking, you know, the technology has ruined a part of that, um, making it too accessible. Uh, so there's always that balance and you know I'll still hammer out day trades when I see them like you know can't resist but uh I I like to be a swing trader. &gt;&gt; Yep. And speaking of like technology uh changing things a little bit when you were talking about the daily graphs charts and flipping through that book and taking out of the trash and studying it. Um, I I recently did an interview with Jim Roel and in his basement he has stacks and stacks of those daily graph books and I I've never really looked 
[0:30] through them and it's like it's just a different experience to look at charts, study charts, pen and paper versus on charting software and flipping through and and probably there's a lot of lessons that you can you probably notice the details even more because you have to study one chart at a time and more more intimately than now we can just flip through hundreds. you know, in a few minutes. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, it it would be, you know, I would flip flip through the books, create my watch list, and then there were four per page. So, there were, you know, the charts were this big. And then I would cut them out. I'd use a little Xacto knife. And then go to Kinko's and then blow them up at 250 times, so it was full size. And then I would have maybe 20 that were my watch list for the week. Now, I have 20 that's my watch list for the day. you know 75 for the week or you know 100 whatever. So it did concentrate you more and I would each day look at those stocks and I would draw at the end of the day I would draw the new bar in and stay focused on it 
[0:31] that way. Um that really teaches you something. something. something. &gt;&gt; Yeah. It really personalizes it more e even more so because you're you're writing it down and you're um you know building the chart. You're part of it. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Excellent. Well, uh, Brian, I'd love to dive in now more into your trading style, and there there's a lot to unpack there. We're going to cover rules. You you've prepared some case studies that we're going to go through as well, which will be great. But maybe just to start with, how would you describe your objective as a trader in a few sentences? How would you describe your overall style? &gt;&gt; Okay. Well, I'm a swing trader, a swing trend trader, I guess you could say. Um, because I never try to fight the trend. Every time I do, I seem to get burned. Um, so, but I I still try once in a while. Um, I did. &gt;&gt; We got to remind ourselves. &gt;&gt; Yeah, we got to remind ourselves. Um, and and that's, you know, that's why I always say you do dumb things, you get what you deserve. And it's true. You 
[0:32] know, I I see people buying a stock, you know, up 30% in two days. sure could work, but don't be surprised, you know, in these stocks with, you know, 20% ATRs and people are surprised that the stock goes down 10% in a day on them. It's like, well, that's half its average. What did you expect? Do do you actually know what you're trading? So, um, &gt;&gt; bring bring you back to your overall style. style. style. &gt;&gt; So, my overall style um is swing trade with a trend using multiple time frames. Uh my key tools are simple moving averages and the anchored volume weighted average price. My secondary tools are pivot levels. Um I do a little bit of Fibonacci and um a little bit with volume but really is a you know volume is more tied in with with the VWAP. So I don't really need rely on on that much multiple time frames and and trend alignment. &gt;&gt; Excellent. and we're going to dive into 
[0:33] each component of that. So, that's awesome. To start with, volume weighted average price. This might be an entirely new concept to somebody watching this. Um, and we're going to get to anchored volume weighted average price uh next, but uh what is volume weighted average price? How would you define it? And how is it calculated on multiple time frames? Okay, the volume weighted average price is basically the um dollar cost average of every single share from a certain period. So if your daily VWAP measures from the very beginning of the day from 9:30, what you'll see is that first trade is 100 shares at $25.76. That's the VWAP right now. But obviously you've got 50,000 trades behind it. So it's a cumulative average. It sets you know it's its anchor point for a daily is on that first very first trade and you know on a one minute bar you'll see it going up and down as the volume moves 
[0:34] and then it gets locked onto that one minute bar. And then if the volume starts coming into it and it goes sideways well the line will just go sideways. It'll say basically we're neutral in here. But if we start to see the the the stock starts to rise and there's sufficient volume, it'll drag that volume weighted average price higher, saying the average transaction price is rising here. The meaning the buyers are in control right here from this period of time. This might be six minutes into the day, but for these first six minutes of the day, the buyers are in control. Then let's say it drops below the VWAP. So it might have gapped up and it runs for six minutes, then it drops below the VWAP. Well, all the people that chased it in those first six minutes are now losing money on average. Not every single one of them, of course, but on average. And we want to know what's the average participant thinking here. here. here. &gt;&gt; It goes back to the psychology aspect, thinking about what different participants are doing. If they bought it, it rose, and then now it's dropping below their costs. They're hurting. &gt;&gt; They're hurting, right? And and and by 
[0:35] the same token, we have short sellers, and the short sellers says, you know, this thing's gapping up. This is a piece of garbage stock. we're going to short short and they take some heat initially, but now, hey, we're in control. So, they put 15,000 shares on the offer to scare people into saying, okay, well, I better hit the bid now. And then another person says, oh, that 15,000 shares step down. Now, you know, it's going to it it drives it lower until maybe it levels out 15 minutes later and then it crosses back up above the volume weighted average price. So this is what I call chase the gap or wait for VWAP is what we're building into a strategy as well. So the stock gapped up, it, you know, ran for a few minutes, pulled back, then it gets back above that daily price average price 22 minutes into the day. So that's where I love to buy gaps because at that point it says, okay, we had an event. It might have been an earnings report, might have been an upgrade, might have been just nothing, you know, who knows? Maybe their 
[0:36] competitor reported earnings or just the group is hot. So, all the rocket stocks are going. This one's going too. It's pulled back. It's back above VWAP. Now, I want to get involved in this hot group. So, it starts to rise a little bit. Stop underneath the low of the day. And 60% of the time it won't violate that. 40% of the time it will, but it's a real nice tight stop. And I'm making those numbers up, but I'm saying the majority of the time it does continue. um especially when you have a clean chart you know with a stage two uptrend on the the bigger time frame. So then to start you know managing that and is you know what you'll see a lot of times during the day is that the buyers are in control and you know the the buyers the institutions who want to buy it will give their order to Goldman Sachs. Goldman Sachs will say oh the stock's gapping up we need to drive this thing down. So, they'll short some shares to try to drive the price lower, short 50,000 shares so that maybe they 
[0:37] can buy 200,000 shares at a lower price. That turns that VWAP sideways. And now people are starting to say, "Hey, the buyers are gaining control here." And now Goldman is long 150,000 shares near the lows of the day, like you know, if it continues to follow through uh out of this million share order they have to fill. So throughout the day, what you'll often see is that strong stock. It'll rally up. It'll, you know, here's the VWAP. It'll run up. It'll pull back down towards that VWAP during the day. It just magically bounces from it. You know, it'll do it two or three times a day sometimes in that same stock. And I don't like to buy the pullback to the VWAP because sometimes it'll fail, right? So, I'm going to either I'm starting to think protect my profits from chase the gap entry or maybe I've sold a little bit because it hit daily R2 or daily R3 and then uh you know when it not necessarily if it hits those but once it so on an intraday trade if it gets to daily R3 let's say because I 
[0:38] bought it already a little extended that's my cue to say this could be where sellers show up. It's a level of interest. So, I'm not going to sell it just because it hit this pivot level. That's foolish. it might run right through it like it did R2. So instead, I look at two-minute bars and as long as each two-minute bar shows a higher low, I stick with my first third. But as soon as it breaks a lower two-minute low, then I sell my first third. I don't care if it keeps going higher. That's not the goal of that. The goal isn't, hey, I'm going to buy this and hold it till next quarter's earnings. The goal is I'm taking some risk off. I'm in a position of strength. So then if the stock, let's say, what do we say? It was 27 when I bought it. Let's say runs to 2875. Uh I sold some at 2870. It pulls back to the VWAP at 2786. It'll maybe stay there for a few minutes. Maybe it drops below it a little bit. Start thinking, oh, maybe 
[0:39] it's not going to hold. But then it firms up and then as it starts to bounce from that, I'll buy back that third that I sold. So now I'm back to a full-size position on that third that I just bought. My stop is maybe 20 cents away. It's below that low of the bounce. So you know undercut the VWAP by 10 cents gets back above. I buy at 15 cents higher. My stop is 15 cents on that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And on the twothirds of the original position, you know, I can look at it as either well now I have a new cost basis or that money is different than this money. So, I start to manage the trade like that. And typically by the end of the day, I'm either going to sell that add-on or if it closes really well and it was, let's say, an earnings gap and, you know, they reported earnings of 25 cents versus expectation of 18 cents and last year's 10 cents, rights were up and I'm going to keep that VWAP from the 
[0:40] event on there for, you know, sometimes it'll sometimes it will hold above it for the next month and ideally I'm going to hold at least a portion of that for that month. And if it breaks below it, that's that's my cue to get out because now the average person over that month since the event is now in a losing position that the sellers have the opportunity to take control. Um, I'm either going to get out on that break or based on the definition of trend, higher highs and higher lows. If it makes a higher low, uh, if it makes a lower low, not on two-minute bars, but instead on, you know, 30 minute bars and, you know, going back the last 15 days, the higher lows, those little pullbacks, each one is successively higher. It breaks that, then I'm going to get out. And the beauty beauty of this is for those of you watching who maybe your their time frame is a little bit longer, you can extrapolate the same logic you're using to the weekly and daily chart. It's it's 
[0:41] it's fractal. &gt;&gt; Fractal. That's the beauty of technical analysis. So what I just did there accidentally was just, you know, talk about strategy as well because just talking about the VWAP itself is kind of boring. It's okay. What do you do with this Starbucks? because it says the average and and you'll see that a month later, you know, a super strong stock, a month later, it'll pull back to that VWAP and it'll bounce from that VWAP because there are programs, there are buyers that are saying, I want to buy this stock for the next three months or the next two two and a half months until we have visibility on the next earnings report. We we want to buy 10 million shares over the next 10 weeks. So roughly a million shares a week. As it pulls back to the daily VWAP, they're defending that. If it pulls back to the two-day VWAP or the week today to the month today or since the earnings, then I'll look at that stock again and say, "All right, I already took my profits. Now it's back to the anchor from the earnings and that earnings was four 
[0:42] weeks ago. If it holds in here, I'm going to look to buy the bounce from that, but I'm not going to buy the touch." That's there's a big difference. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um that what you just said there made me think of Fastley which back in uh Feb 12 2026 had a large earnings gap very strong and then if you anchor a uh a VWAP to that point uh on April 14th we had an undercut of that anchored VWAP. It also coincided with the 50-day moving average. So you had multiple levels of interest there and it responded. It built a little bit of a structure there, mini base, and now is back in a a shorter term uptrend, expanding higher. Is that kind of fit, you know, pretty good example of what you were just &gt;&gt; It does perfectly. And and actually, if you look at that, Richard, and you put a year-to- date anchor on that, it undercut the anchor from the earnings, but it nailed the year-to- date anchor. So, some people could say, "Hey, I 
[0:43] bought the 50-day moving average." And and that's great. And I wouldn't have bought the 50-day moving average. I wouldn't have bought the anchor from the earnings and I wouldn't have bought the anchor from the year-to- date. That's my cue to say, okay, we've got the year-to- date anchor, the earnings anchor, and the 50-day moving average. These are levels of interest. Why? Well, because the average participant from the beginning of the year is now going to be in there defending this stock. Since the last earnings report, they're going to be defending it. And the stock dropped super hard from 35 to 22. So, why did that stock drop? because there was some profit taking initially and then it became panic profit taking. So the panic profit taking they might have sold at an average of 27. They see it down to 22. They're like, "Hey, we really like this stock. We're going to buy it because it's at the 50-day. We're going to stop selling it because it's at the 50. We're going to stop selling it." Another group says, "We're going to stop selling because it's at the year-to- date anchor." Another group says, "We're going to stop selling because it's at the earnings anchor." Then sideline cash 
[0:44] says, "Hey, it's at those levels. I'm going to start to stick a bid in." And then you've got the uh you know, the shorts who start to cover there. So, it all comes together. So, why are these people in there? Is a 50-day moving average magic? No. But we all use it. We all have it on our chart. So, we use that as a reference point of value. When it pulls back that hard, we say, "Let's look for evidence there's buyers in there. There's levels of interest." So, I let other people do what I call the dirty work of risking their money and buying the plunge because if you, you know, even if you look at that, it it touched the 50-day moving average that day at 2150 and it went down to 2068. And when you buy it at 2150 and it's dropping to 20 2060, yeah, it's only 90, but it's in freef fall. And all it's been doing for the last seven days is go down. you start to feel that uncomfortableness saying, "Oh it's 
[0:45] not holding the 50. Maybe I need to get out." So, I I don't like that type of uncertainty. I'd rather buy it $2 higher. When I see that it's back above the 5day moving average, it's made its higher high and I know I can risk now I have a higher low as well that's maybe through all that stress. I I that's the part about trading that I dislike. So, I really concentrate on my my entries for that reason is because I like to be right from the start, have the wind at my back. Buying in the hole just never makes sense to me. I I can't do it. Every time I do, I puke them out. &gt;&gt; Yep. And you mentioned the 5day moving average, and we're going to come back to that. So, you got to keep watching to get to that uh tidbit there. Uh, one more thing about this Fastley chart is um I love the first test of the earnings gap anchored VW and that happened right Feb 23, Feb 24 as well. We've got a little bit undercut rally of that level. Um, seven days later. 
[0:46] &gt;&gt; Yeah, sorry. Go ahead. &gt;&gt; Seven days later. Yeah, &gt;&gt; exactly. And yeah, it just a spot a swing low, easy to manage risk against. And this didn't fall through immediately, but it consolidated a little bit and then had a slight gap down on Feb 27 and then pushed off. You've got the 10day moving average coming up as well. Sorry, 10 EMA. You might be looking at slightly different moving average, but same general area. So I I love the first test of Anchor View up after a significant earnings gap. And Fastley had really good callous. It's involved in AI. You don't need to know too much that it was a pretty a game-changing report. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that was a that was a beauty. &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. Um I want to come back a little bit to volume weight average price because it's significant as well because institutions use it for execution for judging their execution as well. That's kind of how it initially, you know, that's why it's kind of integrated into all these algorithms that institutions use. Is is that right? Or is there a little bit more nuance 
[0:47] there for for why you find it to be so significant? &gt;&gt; Well, that that's how it came about was, you know, how does an institution know whether their broker did a good job buying 500,000 shares of Fastly today? You know, the range is, you know, so this has an ATR of 9.78%. How do you know if you got a fair fill when you've got a 10% range that day? Well, you can look at it and say today's range was uh did they report today? &gt;&gt; No, I think um just uh DOCN reported &gt;&gt; Oh, they they report tomorrow. I see. Um okay, so their range, their low was 29 to a high of uh what 32 and change. Um fair fill in there? Well, you stick the volume weighted average price on that. Today's volume weighted average price was uh was uh was uh right at about So, you know, if you said, "Hey, I want 
[0:48] to buy a half a million shares of this stock." And your broker, you can tell your broker, "I want guaranteed VWAP." and they'll say, "Okay, we usually charge, you know, one penny per share, but because this is a wild stock, we're going to charge five pennies per share for that, but we'll guarantee you VWAP. If we fill it at a higher price, we eat the loss. If we get at a lower price, then we're going to, you know, make some some money on it." And that's why they'll try to do that, you know, drive it down. So, now they're vested with their customers interests. They're saying, "Okay, we'll beat the VWAP or we'll guarantee you VWAP. Now, we're going to go in there. we're going to get really scrappy because if we can beat the VW out by 20 cents on a half a million shares, we're making some real money here for our profit desk uh for the for the trading desk. So, if instead you didn't give that uh guaranteed order and you said, "Hey, it closed at 3238 and uh that's your price." You're like, "Oh, okay. Well, no, you ripped me off. 
[0:49] I mean, I paid I paid 80 cents more than the average participant." like what have you been doing all day? Um, so it's known as the uh the the price a naive trader can expect to get like no matter what time of day you went in there. That's adjusted for every single share, the average price. So as the day goes on, there are, you know, buyers that say, "Hey, we need to buy as much as we can at VWAP. We have these VWAP orders. The stock's been above that all day. Maybe we'll try to get cute and push it below the VWAP a little bit, but we can't get too risky because we can't short 50,000 shares and this thing rips on us. Maybe we can drive it down a few pennies, but they're if it's a super strong stock, they're just better off with their with their bid in there buying as much as they can. That's why you see it so strong there. So, as you said with Fastly, you know, we have three or four days after that earnings report. it runs and runs and then it 
[0:50] gets under goes some volume uh some I'm sorry some regular profit taking. So that profit taking occurs on lighter volume as well which is the pattern we want to see up on big volume lighter volume on a pullback to the key level and it touches that VWAP and closes on it one day gaps lower a little bit the next day and then recovers and then that's the low of that pullback. Well, what happened in there was they drove it down to that VWAP. They probably even, it wouldn't surprise me if they said, "Let's short 50,000 shares in the pre-market. Let's drop this stock down and really scare some people." And like I said, we'll short 50,000. We'll get long 250. So, we're, you know, we maybe make 5 cents on our short, but we're now we're going to keep buying this stock for the next six weeks. And that's why it wasn't until, you know, six weeks later that the volume weighted average 
[0:51] price was tested again in there. And same thing, we saw a little bit of movement around there. You know, the trend is a little bit more mature. So, we can't expect it to hold as perfectly. There's different groups now in this stock. So, it's not just the pure VWAP from the earnings. Um, so you've got, you know, different VWAP participants as well. um the VWAP short sellers who are saying hey it just dropped from 35 to 22 we you know let's put in a VWAP order to to to cover right and in this example that we've talked about we've talked about anchoring the VWOP from the earnings report that significant event um I want to bring it back a little bit so there's if there's folks who are completely new to the concept they can follow along with us so what is anchored volume weighted average price and we've talked about volume weighted average price. We we've just mentioned an application of anchoring it to a key event, the earnings report. You 
[0:52] mentioned the year-to- date uh volume weighted average price as well. Um yeah, could you define for us simply what is anchored VWAP? What what is that to you? How would you define it? How would you explain to somebody who's maybe never heard the concept before? &gt;&gt; The anchored VWAP is anything other than the start of the new day. So, the new day. So, if you're a day trader and the stock has a real volatile run, it runs back 3%. Well, put an anchor on that high and you'll see once it recovers back above that, it might bump up against it a couple times and breaks back above that. Well, that's an anchored from the high that occurred two hours ago. More traditionally, for instance, for the institutions who want to build a big position and are comfortable buying a long-term position in a stock, they're going to say, "We again, we want to buy this stock for the next 10 weeks. We love their earnings. We think this stock's on fire. It's in the right group. Everything's going, but 
[0:53] we don't want to just chase this thing, but if it pulls back to their VWAP, we want to be a net buyer in there. So, buy as much as you can." So, it measures the average price adjusted for volume from any point that you choose, whether intraday or the beginning of the week or the two-day VWAP, the month to date, the year to date. So, the let's hit some of the most important ones since we're on this. So, we've already discussed earnings, which is just fantastic because it combines the fundamentals along with the uh technicals and who's in control and where do they gain control, where do they lose control. Um, so that is an event anchor. A Federal Reserve announcement is an event anchor. that'll often be good for three to eight to 10 days that you'll see like the S&amp;P, you know, find adjustment around that. In particular, if it's in a move that wasn't expected from the Fed, these ones 
[0:54] where they just don't do anything, it, you know, doesn't matter. Um, but if you get a a big catalyst, &gt;&gt; big volatility, that kind of the spike of that. Yeah. &gt;&gt; So, and that br so so that's an event. Um, you've got timebased anchors. So the daily VWAP, week to date, monthto date, year to date. Um and then you've got um price anchors. So highs and lows. What is the you know this year the the low the April low that we saw? That anchor hasn't really been tested, but it will. I it's not important right now when you look at a chart of the spy because that anchor is anchor is anchor is &gt;&gt; Do you want to bring that up actually Brian so people can follow f follow along? along? along? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So on this chart on the left I've got the daily chart of the spy and on the right let me just clean some of this stuff up. On the right I've got the 30 minute time frame. So here on the 30 minute time frame you can see this is our low that we saw this year right and what did we see? Well initially we had 
[0:55] it tested right here and then again right here and right here. Then the market really took off from there. So that you know it that anchor is down at There's no value in that to us right now, but it doesn't mean there won't be um in the in the future. So what we want to do is we want to say, okay, what about it really took off right here. That was a new momentum campaign right there. And then notice how that right there was where we saw it pull back perfectly to. I I bought and I'm still holding from some of that right there. When I bought right here at 6 I think it was 681 or 682. I thought I was so late. I was I was kicking myself because I didn't buy the touch the the bounce from the fiveday moving average twice. But if you recall this was the ceasefire and that's when I 
[0:56] was like well this thing could go either way tonight. if if it gaps up, it can go without me because it might be right back down to 622 and I wasn't willing to take that risk. And I didn't buy it that actually I did buy it that day because it was a chase the gap or wait for VWAP um for a day trade. I did not hold it. Hindsight, maybe I should have, but you know that's hindsight. I did hold this one. So now we've got this new momentum campaign and what we'll do is we'll hand off again. So we'll hand it off and say the last time. So, is that anchor relevant to me right here, right now? Maybe if we get a sharp pullback, I want to be aware of that. But even now, that's it's just not realistic. I don't think that we're going to pull back 25 points to that. So, our next level of interest to anchor from was the last place that anchor was touched. So, when we do that, notice what happened right here. That was where it was touched perfectly. And then we could anchor from there again. And this is where it started getting a little bit wobbly because we were underneath that 
[0:57] anchor. And you can see there, that's the fiveday moving average. But we were below those. That to me turned the light caution. It didn't turn it red because we were still consolidating in this range. And now we've had this new momentum campaign begin just after this uh this right here. You could say that's kind of the beer. I guess you could say with that gap um that that is an important event and now we came down we touched the actually where I have my anchor I don't know why it's not showing here is right here this is the monthtoate anchor um but we came down we tested the breakout right here and the fiveday moving average so right now when I look at managing risk I say this is the most recent relevant higher low if it breaks that I'm going to sell at least a portion of what I bought over here and I was thinking about I I almost sold it in here when it made that lower low but it didn't violate um my rule for 
[0:58] that at that point. So these are you know key anchor points monthto date you know from the beginning of the uh and I know you uh you know wanted to mention handoffs and that's exactly what we're talking about here is these handoff levels where it touches each one of these and then from the beginning of a new momentum campaign prior to that you know I had an anchor on the year-to- date high and that year-to- date high was resistance a couple times during this downtrend but we the lower highs and lower lows. And it was that gap up where the buyers were back in control, not only from there, but I don't know what happened to my year-to- date anchor, but the year-to- date anchor is as well is right in there. And I'll just make that uh blue so we can &gt;&gt; see the differentiation. Yeah, it's probably not exactly on the yearto date, but it gets the point. &gt;&gt; Maybe someone who's color blind has no idea what we're talking about, but most of us will most of us. Yeah. &gt;&gt; So, anyways, that's that's why I bought 
[0:59] in here. And like I said, I thought I was late on this purchase. I was like, man, it just came from 630 to 680, but I've been sitting here, you know, day trading because I don't trust this thing. I got to own some stuff. And that is so that covers I think you know the highs and lows and you know it got a little bit wobbly this week but you know did it right here because that the month to date was the year-to- date high at that point and we were below that but it didn't do any structural damage. So I was looking to saying okay it's just a pullback. Let's see how it behaves at the 5day moving average. If it gets trapped, you know, if the market instead had done this and gotten trapped under it and the 5day would have moved average would have looked like this, then we'd have a different scenario to to work with. But it survived. So now our definition of trend says this is the 
[1:00] most recent relevant higher low. Raise your stop up under there. &gt;&gt; And do you typically raise your stop on that whole position? I guess once we're getting more extended, maybe it's like past your certain time frame. Are you following pretty closely on the most relevant intraday higher low or are you doing that only like 2/3 or a third of your your your &gt;&gt; Great question. One of the stocks that we'll talk about is actually SanDisk from two runs ago where I did it really well. Um, and I'll I'll show you how I did that. did that. did that. &gt;&gt; Sure. And going back to the year to date and uh maybe that that anchor VWAP that you had from highs there, talk to me about what's going on psychologically when you anchor it to highs like that and we and um basically buyers are able to push us above that level because I think this is another key and really relevant uh anchor view for traders, you know, breakout traders who are are trading maybe early up the righthand side. There's often resistance at that VW that comes down from highs. there's a 
[1:01] consolidation and then the early range breakout upper the right hand side is often a break through that anchored VWAP. Um so yeah, I' I'd love for you to kind of break down what's going on behind the scenes there psychologically and every from from your perspective. &gt;&gt; So so we're looking at this red is the the anchor from the high, orange is the year to date on the daily time frame and then that blue is the 50-day moving average. I fully expected in here. I fully expected that we were going to at least time correct in here. I thought we were going to maybe pull back to the 20 and then get going. So for me, this was a really uncomfortable buy right here, but I just felt like I have to. I know where my risk is. My risk was under here. That was my higher low. I said I got to, you know, we get paid to take risk. Now's the time to do that. And fortunately it worked. It didn't, you know, cave in like I kind of thought it would in the moment of the heat. I in the heat of the moment I was thinking there's no way this works buying this extended. It never works for me like 
[1:02] this. But it did in this case. So when we get back above that year-to date anchor, the orange line and the red line, what it says is, you know, the bias for the year basically at this point we were down I don't know what were we down 9% 10% or something for the spy uh in that area. So the the the psychology was terrible. We were below a declining 20, below a declining 50. We even broke the 200 day moving average and then we came down to pretty close to the anchor which I have on all my charts is off the terra flows and it it wasn't perfect support in in and but it was a level of interest. So people say why do you have it on there? It didn't work. Because that's the the neighborhood I want to start taking a look at and I want to look for evidence. I didn't see the evidence there. I mean, I think I day traded over in here. And obviously, you could say, "Well, don't you wish you held that?" Sure, &gt;&gt; but you don't know what's going to happen. That's not a strategy. &gt;&gt; That's not that's not a trading brain. That's a a hindsight brain. Um, so 
[1:03] the the at this point, the average participant who's had this bearish scenario and who's been leaning short against the market because they think, "Hey, the whole world's going to blow up. Oil's at 80. It's at 90. It's at rates are soaring. We've got, you know, people will say a madman in the White House. I'm not making it political. Um, there's no way this market can go up. Only price pays. Um, that's the point is that you've got to put all that stuff to the side. And and and just recently, we've seen the same thing. Look at the volume. The volume's been declining. Who cares? So what? You don't get paid on volume. you get paid on price. Someone last Friday said, "Are you concerned about the gravestone dogee?" And I said, "No, it's it's one bar. We're still above a rising fiveday moving average." And then I laid out the scenario. Let's see what happens if we pull back and 
[1:04] test the five and this prior resistance. If it breaks below that, in hindsight, we might say, "Oh, it's because of that gravestone dogee, but now that's been swallowed up by, you know, new highs." So, we have to look at and say what's information, what's um So, I have a Discord and one of the channels in there is called interesting but not helpful. Uh, Uh, Uh, as you can imagine, Richard, I'm a little bit of a hard ass. Um, I'm like, okay, so what? How does that help us make money? What are we doing here? We're trying to make money. I call them back of the baseball card statistics. Five out of the last eight times when we had a full moon and we were touched the six months out. Who? That's not a trading strategy. That doesn't mean anything. It means, okay, it's like seasonality. Sell in May and go away. It's been awful. Santa Claus rally last four years has been a complete dud, 
[1:05] right? Those are times of interest. Okay, I'm interested. you know, typically rallies in this area. I'll be extra alert, but I'm not just going to buy because of some stupid little Santa Claus rally thing has worked eight out of the 13 t whatever the numbers are. I don't know. Um, it just says pay attention a little bit, be a little bit more on your game. &gt;&gt; And I want to zoom in a little bit on the the confluence that you pointed out of that level and the 5day moving average um on on the intraday chart uh just shortly this past pullback this most recent Yeah. Yeah. So this little &gt;&gt; dissolation sheet. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Just talk to me a little bit more about levels of interest and why you specifically say of interest and not of you know must you know obey to the scent and stuff like that. Um yeah break that down for me. That would be great. &gt;&gt; You know people always say well you know the market has resistance at you know when you're down here they'll say the market has resistance at at this point 
[1:06] right here. They'll say well that's resistance. uh whatever you know there's resistance at 695 and when you're at 680 and I'll say well no you that you don't know that we only know support and resistance in anything in hindsight we don't know whether that gravestone dogee meant anything if it failed from there you'd say okay well that's why we didn't know that fastly was going to find buyers at the year-to- date the earnings anchor and the 50-day moving average but when more people come to the same conclusion in that same area it kind increase the odds because one guy might be thinking, hey, the 50-day moving average, I'm going to buy there. Another guy might say, it's the earnings anchor, I'm going to buy there. Another group said, gal says, I'm going to buy at the year-to- date anchor. She got it right. Um, they all got it right, you know, because it moved uh well from there. But they're levels of interest, and we want to say, why are they levels of interest? Well, this was a level of interest on it at six, you know, 95 because we had 
[1:07] previously been rejected there one, two, three, maybe four times. So, it we there's price memory in there. What that says is, you know, and that's what the VWAP is price memory from the beginning of the year. Where's the memory? Where does where's the average participant anchored? Where where's their bias? So this becomes, you know, the more volume that traded there, the more likely it is there's going to be people saying, "Well, I'm at break even. That really sucked being down 10%. I'm going to break even. Thank god my wife didn't ask me how the account was back then. I dodged her. We're back to, you know, we're back to we're up at 1%. I'm going to say we we're successful in the market." And um other people might say, "Hey, I'm going to short there because that's resistance." But it's a level of interest. So when we get to that 695 level, um we can zoom in over here a little bit and say, "Well, what happens 
[1:08] at that 695 level?" We can look at it and put a horizontal line on that and say, "Was there any evidence at all that there was resistance there?" If you call that evidence right there, it's wrong because what we're looking at is a trend. We saw a higher high, we saw a little pullback, and then we saw a higher high. Well, guess what? That became your important higher low. Buying here with a stop under there. That's a valid entry in an extended market. And then it makes a higher high and a higher high and a higher high in these higher lows. raise your stop up under these higher lows and maybe get stopped out of that swing trade right here, right? Because not even right there, most likely right here because we have this high, then we have a lower high, then we have the lower low. But I would also tell you, we're right on the rising 5day moving average. So give it a chance. It's still innocent until proven guilty. 
[1:09] Still give it a chance because the fiveday moving average is rising. Now the fiveday moving average has flattened out. If the sellers are going to gain control, they're going to have gained control right here because this was five days ago and that would have started to the roll the 5day moving average over and that would be evidence a lower low here would say okay that level of interest up in here broke down. Now let's see how it behaves on a pullback to the 10day to the 20-day to the Fibonacci to the VWAP off of that breakout. And those are all all these technical tools is levels of interest. How does it behave there? It's not a magic formula. Sometimes they seem magic. All I do is buy the 21 the touch of the 21 EMA or the 20 SMA or the 50 or whatever the VWAP off of earnings and it works every time. No, it doesn't. Because if you get that mentality and you don't do the most important thing, which is manage risk, it's going to work eight times in a row and you're gonna 
[1:10] just think you've cracked the code to the market. Then you get one time where it does, you know, something like, you know, a disaster like poet and and they buy up here at 15 and the next three days later it's down 50%. Or they decide, yeah, car is definitely going to a,000. I can buy it at 850. and they, you know, I've been scalping it all the way up in here. This is great. Now it's clearly going to a thousand. Where's your stop? Um, I don't know. What do you mean? Uh, and you know, then you're down here and eight out of 10 times is great. If but one out of nine out of 10 times is great, but if you don't manage the risk, you're you're going to get blown up. And and what it does psychologically, it's not even just the money. what it does psychologically. I mean, I feel like if I did something nine times in a row, I'd feel pretty smart. But then if I lost all that money on him one time, I just would hate myself for that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And could you bring up the spy? 
[1:11] I've got one um thing that you said that I want to double click on. Um you mentioned the volume and how we've been rising on lower volume. Um, and I know you've said this before, you know, it's it's it's um the the biggest volume often happens at turning points and necessarily during the trends. So, I I love if you could kind of break down how you interpret volume. Like you've said, price is the most important thing. We only get paid on price, but how how do you incorporate volume into your analysis? How much do you weight that versus what's going on uh in the chart itself? How how do you use it as you kind of look through multiple time frames? Yeah, I mean if you look at the high volume bars, I'm a spy right in here. We can draw a horizontal line on these um or vertical line rather. That was a turning point. That was a turning point. That was pretty close pretty close to the well that was the turning point of that pullback and that was pretty much your turning point there as well. So, and we saw what happened. We 
[1:12] saw the volume expanding on the way down. fear was just churning but we saw the volume expanding and then we had maximum fear down here that's when your VIX starts soaring your uh was the greed and fear index goes down to 12 and that those are buy signals because you know we had this big volume bar right here that looked like well maybe that was the turning point &gt;&gt; and this was the retest on lower on on higher volume. So again, it's not a magic, hey, that's the biggest volume because we might have been down 10 points this day on even bigger volume, right? So it's just a reason to say, well, this is the biggest volume in six months. That's a reason to think we're maybe in the neighborhood of getting enough fear where we're going to tur. And just the same, you look at this and say, man, it just keeps the volume keeps diminishing. And you could say, I'm going to short it because this this is a rally. It's up on no volume. And I hear people saying that 
[1:13] and I hear the old me saying that 20 years ago thinking that's up too much. This is stupid. We've got, you know, oil at this. We've got interest rates doing that. We've got the, you know, the the war going on. So listen to price defer to price action. These are all just tools that tell us these are things to be interested in, right? And if they're flashing, then it means either get ready to to buy in in the case of okay, we're getting washed out or if it's flashing, then oil is still maintaining its bid. We're up on leg volume. Breath is narrowing. That that's all good information to say, okay, if ice starts breaking down, it could get ugly. Therefore, I need to have my risk and move to the sidelines. It's not good information to say, "Okay, breath is narrowing. I've got to get out." Those are completely different things. And that's how people misuse technical analysis a lot is to 
[1:14] say there there is support at this moving average. &gt;&gt; Let's see. Let's see how it behaves. &gt;&gt; No, absolutely. &gt;&gt; Level level of interest. Yeah. So, I think I did be that answer to this. &gt;&gt; That's good. No, that's perfect. It's worth hammering home. Um, Brian, I want to jump to the trade case studies that you prepared. Uh, and I think we'll dive into some more concepts as you go through those. So, um, yeah, let's dive in. Where would you like to start? &gt;&gt; Okay, so you asked me for two great trades, two normal trades, two losing trades. Let's start out with the losers. Um, and then we're with the big winners and then kind of normal, you know, more. So, US Foods or or actually no, Caesars. I'm sorry. I wanted to look at Caesars. I put Caesars on um uh on X as well. So Caesar's over in here looked like it was breaking out and that was on 416 where I purchased this one and and first of all Caesars is you 
[1:15] know it's ATR is three and a 3.3%. It's it's not a tech stock. It's not and and I was looking at the market thinking well the market gets extended all the leaders are extended. Let's go for something a little bit more conservative. So I bought it on this day on this push higher right here. Um, and then I sold a third of it. So, I bought it at 2758. I sold a third at $28 per share. That was my two-minute exit. Hit daily R2 that day and it went a little bit higher. Then I broke a two-minute low. So, that first third I locked in um for 42 cents. And my initial stop was at So on the 16th right right over in here. So my initial stop was 26.22 which was below this low. So I bought it at what did I say 2758 right over in here I think on this day. It was probably this day right here actually after that gap up and then I sold my first third at 28 
[1:16] on this day with that two-minute exit and it came crashing down all the way, you know, and and I was I was uh I I raised my stop to there and got stopped out at out at out at I don't remember which day, but I got stopped out maybe it was this day I said under here 2739. So I made 42 cents on one third and lost 19 cents on 2/3. So it's basically a break even. But the reason I chose this as a losing trade is to kind of show you know a lot of times people say well don't you feel like you give that first away sometimes and because you know ideally what we want to do is we just want to see the stock go up and up and up and up and if you sell a third of it right over here don't you feel like a jackass? No, I don't because when I when I feel my timing is good and I have an A+ trade, I'm going to go in with my maximum position size. And I go 
[1:17] in with my maximum position size right from the start because my strength is my entries because I'm looking at the the weekly chart, the daily, the 65, the 30, the five minute, and the two-minut chart. So, I'm getting as precise as I can. So, I want to take a little bit of risk off because I've gone maximum size. And if I cut it down now, I'm at normal size. So, I can feel comfortable holding that 2/3 which is my real size. And if it comes down and stops me out, well, you know, I lost a little bit, but it was basically a break even. And only because I sold that first third. Otherwise, it would have been a not a full risk unit because I raised the stop from 2622. from 2622. from 2622. And I guess I'd still be in it if I hadn't raised a stop, but I'm glad I'm not because this is just a stupid stock the way it tra Yeah, a mess is better than stupid stock. But uh so that was one. Um now I think I have a one that was a real loser. Before you go to that, 
[1:18] um for obviously you're mentioning thirds of the position that you had invested in the stock, how much of your portfolio do you put into typically, you know, one trade that you put on? And does it depend on the risk you're taking? You can size it a little bit more if your stop on that is tighter because the swing the the swing low is is closer to your entry. Yeah. Walk me through kind of how you size these positions. positions. positions. &gt;&gt; So, I'm a fan of the R multiple. An R multiple just says, you know, you have $100,000 account. The most you're going to risk on a trade is $1,000. Now, for people at home, this doesn't mean that means you're going to buy $1,000 worth of stock. That's not your risk. Your theoretical risk of $1,000. So, if you buy the stock at 10 and you buy a thousand shares and your stop is a dollar away, that's your risk unit. You're letting it, you know, $8.99 is your stop. If it breaks below that, you're out. So, you buy a,000 shares. 
[1:19] But if your stop is at $9.75, your risk is 25 cents per share. Now, you can buy 4,000 shares of that stock and have the same amount of risk. So, you're leveraging based on how tight that stop is. Then you've got to say, well, am I just creating a a tight stop because I want more shares and I'm more likely to get stopped out or is that actually a real higher low that if it breaks, so I'm always looking at, you know, makes that first higher high, so I look to the prior higher low. If it breaks below that higher low, then I'm out because my uh emerging definition of trend no longer exists. I had a higher high, but I broke the higher low. So, trend is over. Got to get out. If it's truly 25 cents away, buy 4,000 shares. Maybe I'll buy 5,000 shares and sell that first,000 shares up 25 cents just because I like to trade and make $250 and uh you know, hold the rest and and 
[1:20] use some other uh you know, rules for for getting out. Um, but what I'll often do at the same time is say, okay, if it breaks below 975, stop at 973. Give it two pennies below, maybe three pennies below, usually two. Um, but that seems tight and the market's a little squirrely right now. So, if the market conditions say, "Yeah, I did, you know, don't do that." But there's another low at $943. then I might put half my stop at 973 and half of at 941 to say okay if it just comes down and wicks me out then I'm you know fine I've still got half my position and maybe if it recovers I'll think from a failed move comes a fast move I'll get back in pay a little bit higher price even um and that reminds me of a rule that I want to uh kind of remind people of here too is when I say 
[1:21] a stop I never set my stop before the market opens. That's that's not a real thing for me. Um, so if my stop is 973 and the stock opens at 968, if I have my stop in, well, I'm out at 968. And what what I'll do instead is I'll give it five minutes. So I'll give the first five minutes of the day because I know that there's people playing games in here who like to open the stock lower so they can buy more stock. So, if the first five minutes it drops down to 958 and then it starts to recover. As soon as minute 6 begins, I put my stop at then it's not recovering today. Um, and then if it, you know, continues to rally, then hopefully I can salvage the trade. And that's happened so many times where I've had stocks where I should have been stopped out technically. If you, you know, consider But Brian, you said the stop was there. Yeah, but I said don't say it till five minutes after. So that keeps me in a lot of 
[1:22] winning trades. &gt;&gt; Excellent. Um, yeah. So you covered risk multiples, how you manage risk, and what how much of your account, what percentage do you kind of have as your R as your what you're willing to risk on any given trade. &gt;&gt; My percentage of R is tiny. I just I just am not a big risk taker. It's something I work on all the time is that I have to be greedier. I have to be more accepting of bigger losses. So, I don't really look at it in terms of that. Um, it's it's it's more, okay, here's my maximum risk and I'm trying to and I'll trade around it too. So, if it runs 15 cents and it feels like and it breaks the VWAP and I've got 10,000 shares of the stock and I haven't sold any yet, I might sell 2500 as it breaks VWAP and take 13 cents. just reducing risk because if it fails completely, if it comes back to break even and the market's rolling over and I have 7,500 shares left, I might sell 5,000 of them 
[1:23] and I'll have 2500 left. And then if it recovers, it gets back above that VWAP, I might buy the five back, but not the other 2500. So now I'm back up to 7500 shares. So I'll get pretty active in there trying to really &gt;&gt; with that dimmer switch journey. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And and sometimes it's like what am I doing all this work for? But a lot of times it really is it's it's more about the mental clarity of okay, I was just up 15 cents on these 10,000 shares. Now I'm down 22 cents and it hasn't violated my stop, but I feel so much better if it goes down 22 cents and I'm only holding 2500 shares and then it curls back up and maybe even buy a little bit higher. I don't care. But I didn't have to take that draw down um in there. And so it's not that it's $2,500 is my our unit. It's more about just kind of playing around in there until I feel like, okay, I've got it. I've got 
[1:24] it by the tail and now I'm in a position of strength. &gt;&gt; Gotcha. Perfect. Yeah. Sorry to interrupt you, but I thought it was it was good to talk about position sizing, I think. So, yeah, jump to your your second trade here. &gt;&gt; Okay. Um All right. So, USFD, this is one I also put on um X and I bought this on the 2 se 27th. USFD. Oh, yeah. So, I bought it after the open right in here. Uh oops. Right in here. And I paid And I paid And I paid So, no, I didn't. I bought it right over here. Sorry. 9350 is what I paid. So, I bought this breakout because it wasn't very extended and I had my higher low right here and I got stopped out that same exact day for a full risk unit. And it's since and you look at I mean I look at the stock you know this was an earnings report very similar to um well no it's not similar never mind. Um so it 
[1:25] was here's the the earnings the anchor from the earnings and it just kept hammering away at it. The 50-day moving average was starting to flatten out. The year-to- date anchor on, you know, five different occasions. So, it was here's, you know, an anchored VWAP pinch. And let let me just say a word about anchored VWAP pinch. I kind of wish I never wrote about them because everyone is talking about VWAP pinches. And technically, this is a pinch, but it's a terrible pinch because it's so wide. What I want to see in a pinch is something like this. I shouldn't have drawn that last one. Uh is something that looks like this that it really compresses. So like, you know, like what Mvini calls a volatility comp uh compression contraction. Thank you. P contraction pattern. &gt;&gt; So what I want to see is I want to see the volatility contract. I want to see it, you know, get really tight like a ascending triangle where it gets really 
[1:26] tight at the end. That's a pinch. You know, buying a break of the pinch up here. No thanks. It just ran from 88 to I don't want to be a buyer of that breakout on that first move above it now. And and here I've just given up on this stock because it just keeps having these, you know, it breaks out here, it breaks out here, it gets hit, it gets hit. The next one probably goes and it goes without me because I've I've been burnt twice in this one actually. Um, so that's, you know, the question of am I being stubborn or am I being persistent? Well, the personality of the stock and it's only a 2 and a half% ATR, but you can't base volatility just on that number. You have to look inside and say, what's the personality of this stock? And some that's something a lot of people don't do. They say, I don't use intraday charts. Understand the personality of the chart. Is it like crazy, you know, on the open? Is this a stock that says, and this one's not a horrible example, but if you just look 
[1:27] at the, you know, the 9:30 bar and say, wait a minute, I'm not going to buy this thing in the first 15 minutes of the day. Look at all these false move, all this false movement in here. Let's understand the personality of stock a little. So, there's a that was a full losing trade because it it it I bought the strength, made that higher high here. I did I wanted to buy before this higher high because I didn't want to buy and that's this one. I didn't want to buy it extended. I didn't want to wait for that. So, I figured I was getting the head start. The fiveday moving average was rising. This was the most recent relevant higher low. I thought it was impossible it was going to get hit because that that wick I thought really, you know, it hit that anchor off of uh that was the uh what was that anchor? Um oh, that was the anchor for the uh market low. um which obviously the stock isn't respecting at all. It's not respecting anything. It's on the ban list. Um okay, so that's two losers. Um 
[1:28] two good ones. And this one, this one was was was wasn't my normal trade because this was more about um so let me get to the uh actually let me get to the weekly chart because this is target therapeutics and I found it and started buying it right in here and I read a little bit about it because I was like you know we got their breaking out. What? And it's a And I looked at it and said, I love this chart, but it's target therapeutics. Therapeutics means biotech. Biotech means you're going to have moves like this, you know, on a regular basis. And figure out something about this company. What is it? What they do? Because I want to buy some I want to buy a real position. So, I bought a real position. I bought a real real position. And this is my best trade actually of 2024. Um, and it it looks like a mess on the weekly chart, but I, you know, I I did a 
[1:29] great job of, you know, ran up. I I sold a bunch of it. Held some even through this. Loaded back up right in here, even bigger than this time. Kind of got chopped up, you know, sold some, got chopped up in here a little bit, loaded back up even bigger, you know. So, this was a big size, this was bigger, and this was even bigger. And then I caught this rally just beautifully and and sold like as it was breaking just starting to break down. So that was a huge trade for me. Um and I need to do more of those because even though I didn't hold any of the original shares the the entire time it was that campaign more I consider it that you know that trade or that campaign campaign campaign &gt;&gt; trading around the position. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So that was that was a beautiful one for me. And then I mentioned um the first run in SanDisk and what I consider the first run in 
[1:30] SanDisk is right here. And so when we look at the daily chart, what we're l looking at is right here. This move. So September of 25. And this is the second move. And this move is the third, which actually as a little aside, um I do have a small piece that I'm holding from right here. It broke the 50, came down to the year date and it started bouncing. I bought some there and I sold most of it and I I sold the majority of it up in here. But I'm holding some just to tell myself I can hold something crazy. I'll probably sell it. I don't know where I'll sell it, but I'll probably write it down a lot because I'm trying to prove something to myself. Anyway, so this was move one of SanDisk. And when I was looking there, this is something I'm trying to do a lot more of, of, of, which is when you see a a real clear strong breakout, right? And we can look at it right in here. And you know, let's 
[1:31] say we can't see what happened. So, okay. So it it it broke out right here. Uh and there there it goes, of course. Um so it broke out on big volume, the the biggest volume it's seen in a long time on a gap. And that was I think I purchased it, you know, right around in here. I didn't buy it, you know, on the gap, but it pulled back, got back above it. I bought it there, set my stop below here, and I said, what I'm going to do is I'm going to hold this one. I held a third of it and as it made the lower low below the rising five-day moving average, I sold my first third right there. And then my plan was I'm going to sell if it makes a lower low below the 10day moving average. It didn't make a lower low. So, this was the lower low that I was using at the five at the 10day moving average. I said if it goes below there I'll sell the that third and if it sell makes a 
[1:32] lower low below the 20 which at that point was right here then I'll get out of the balance. So instead it kept rising up and I sold right here the second third because that right there was the lower low below the the 10day moving average. And then if I can move that back over so we can see the rest of the the the &gt;&gt; And just in case if people can't see clearly, the 5day moving average is the blue one, the 10day moving average is the uh green, and the 20-day is the orange moving average. &gt;&gt; Correct. And then I never expected this to happen. I sold that final third of uh SanDisk. I I didn't I I sold it below this low. I said, "Good enough. This thing's getting the kicked out of it." I just held this stock for, you know, 200 points. I'm getting out. I don't care what my rule was going in. It's time to break my discipline. Um, so that was really a great move in there. And I had a lot of shorter term trades 
[1:33] in between. But I what I did in this case was whenever when I was trading the stock um I was actually trading this at Fidelity because in my Fidelity account I tend to hold things longer because I don't have my level twos right there and I have to pull it up and like type in the order. So in that account um they have the option to say do you want to sell specific shares? So I always just, you know, buy, sell, it doesn't matter. First in, first out, whatever they do. Um, so what I always do is I when I'm trading it, let's say, let's say I buy it here and sell it there. What I'll do is I'll say sell the most recent. So I still know what my cost basis is down here. So I can look at my account and go, "Oh, you're so smart." Um, so anyways, and then you know that was Sandis. So that was a that was a more pure trade and and the the trade 
[1:34] that I strive to y &gt;&gt; that I don't hit nearly often enough. I didn't do it on the second run in SanDisk and I'm kind of doing it on this, but it's such tiny shares that I'm left with right now that in my mind it doesn't count. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And uh let me ask you this. Uh I've got two f I've got two questions, but first how did um SNDK get on your radar? How did it get on your radar for to make that first trade? &gt;&gt; I you know it it wasn't really I I I think that so the earnings were right here. So it wasn't an earnings ga gap. I don't remember what the news was back then, Richard, but I think there was news and you know everyone was talking about it and you can see that was you know the biggest volume ever. you know, it IPOed and usually the IPO volume is big, but there that was the biggest volume ever to that point or maybe this was a little bit bigger, but sustained volume here for a couple days. Um, I I honestly don't remember. I think it 
[1:35] might have been just, you know, a lot of times what I'll do at the end of the day is I'll go look at what were were the top movers and see if, you know, there's some big breakout I'm missing. CYTK was one, I think, no, CTK. I don't know. There was one today that I added to my list because it was a big breakout. I've never heard of the stock. Um, so Um, so Um, so I I don't remember how I heard of it. &gt;&gt; Yep. What I guess what drew you to it? Was it that it was a recent IPO that it was kind of set up on multiple time frames like stage one transitioning into stage two? What kind of I guess made it a priority focusless stock for you? I you know it it had been I remember it had been a hot IPO and I was keeping track of it with the anchor from the IPO which in this case it was kind of back and forth above and below as you can see. So that's that purple line. It resisted there. It kind of supported in there. It definitely supported there. Then we had at this point you know over 
[1:36] here we had the 20 and the 50 crisscrossing each other. I'm sorry the five and 10. I'm so used to looking at daily charts. Uh, and then we had the five above the 10, above the 20. And when you look at the daily time frame over there, we had the 20 above the 50. And we didn't have a 200 day moving average yet. But it just it reminded me of Tesla in in an original breakout that uh way back &gt;&gt; the 2013 one. &gt;&gt; Uh, no. Yeah. Prior probably 2013. I remember that because Yeah, exactly. Right here. It reminded me of Tesla right in here because I wrote an article about it and I was loaded to the gills in that and got so much of this move. It felt like such a genius. I mean, but it was a nice trade. &gt;&gt; Yep. Yep. Awesome. And then my second question was you showed that trade on the 130 time frame. Uh this might be a loaded question to ask someone who who wrote a book on uh you know trading on multiple time frames, but do you have a favorite time frame for your style that you manage a trade more on or it's on 
[1:37] all time frames? &gt;&gt; You know, my favorite answer actually came with an interview with you before and uh it just came on the spur of the moment. I was like, I got to remember that. That was good. So I I you know I said well Richard you know Pablo Picasso his favorite color might have been blue but maybe he emphasized that in his paintings. I'm just making this up. I don't mean I think I said Van Go back then. Vakina says it's Van Go. Uh because she's Danish. Um but anyways um it's it's the whole pallet. How do they weave together? I I need to So, anytime I present charts, I'm showing people at least two time frames. So, and and here, look at SanDisk riding this fiveday moving average to, you know, after touching the year-to- date anchor right there. Um, it's just been beautiful above this 5day moving average. Um, so how do they blend together and when do we see these consolidations and how can I say, okay, that's a fake break higher. 
[1:38] That was a fake break higher. Now, this looks like the real one with a stop under here. Oh, Do I get stopped out because it made that lower low. No, it touched the fiveday moving average. And it, you know, it's stressful in there. These are big numbers. You know, they're moving 40, 50, 75 points a day. It's 150 points today. Uh, you know, these these are insane moves. Even on small share size, it's, you know, real money. money. money. &gt;&gt; Yep. Excellent. No, that that that's a good great answer. Um yeah, le let's jump to I guess uh your next trade or excuse me. excuse me. excuse me. &gt;&gt; Okay, so these were what were kind of more normal types of trades. &gt;&gt; So these are kind of singles and doubles. doubles. doubles. &gt;&gt; Yeah, run-of-the-mill swing trades. Um so Alber, you know, this is they do um uh you know, lithium and rare earths and and you know, some more established um minerals and that sort of thing. But I I bought Alber at 188. So I think that was uh on this day 
[1:39] chased the gapper weight for VWAP. I sold a third that first day up $6.90. So that was what would that be? 191ish or whatever that might be. So up in here. Um I sold that first third. Then the second third I sold up $18.40 on this day. I think I used a two-minute exit somewhere in there. No, I'm sorry. I didn't sell it on that day. Uh I sold it under here, right here. And I think that was up $18.40. And then I kept my final third right under here, which I thought there's no way that's going to get hit, right? How's it going to give it? I mean, this thing went from 188 to 215. And then, so, you know, I sold a third here, a third here, and I got stopped out of the final third there. By the way, it looks like it's setting up again. Like, here's the rising 5day moving average again, finally. and it looks like maybe it's going to get going. Although all of these rare earth plays have been kind of 
[1:40] not so good. Um, and that's maybe more lithium or some more than rare earth. But, uh, so that was a a decent trade. I mean, it, you know, for the amount that was up, uh, on average I made $11.20 But I tell you what, this day sucked when it gapped down and just kept going. I was like, well, there's no way they're going to get my stop. That's way down there. You know, it closed at 215 and I got my stop at 198. But, you know, honor your stops because, you know, I could have ridden it all the way down to a loser in here and it's, you know, lower highs and lower lows below a declining five. Perfect. And are you are you typically shooting more for singles and doubles or are you trying to expand a little bit more into the triples and home runs when you can? Obviously, when the market is trending, it's going to reward that versus a choppier markets going to reward more turnover, more just taking the singles and doubles when you got it. But in 
[1:41] general, are you trying to extend your time frame a little bit? General &gt;&gt; my my risk management tends to be so tight that they end up being singles, doubles, and some triples. Um, and the home runs, I have to really work hard and be uncomfortable holding things and reminding myself what I'm trying to do with these final shares of SanDisk and just amazed, you know, that they go up $150 in one day. Um, because again, even on small shares, it it matters, right? Um, so I Um, so I Um, so I that that's something I work on. But it at the same time I you know the number of trades of trades of trades I I think that there there's a couple things that keep me in that arena is that I do have tight stops. I don't have much tolerance. So I get stopped out on more on more I take more trades and I get stopped out on more trades. And sometimes I fail to 
[1:42] switch gears and say, "No, wait a minute. Don't forget this was that big earnings and it's gapping out on this." And there's guys like Jim Roel in there just buying the out of it and other people doing this and there's probably VWAP programs in there for the next 10 weeks, 12 weeks. Don't give this stock away. So I have to and that's so I I I realize I have a little bit of different personalities. So, my absolute most active account is the IRA that I have at Ameritrade because if I'm doing all those transactions, I don't want to keep records on it. Um, and it's profitable, so it's tax sheltered, but I tend to trade that the most aggressively. And that's of course where my level twos are. So, I can just, you know, without thinking sometimes I just like, why did I just press that button? Why did I just sell that? That was dumb. Um whereas I've got to go to fidelity.com and I 
[1:43] make sure I keep it closed during the day just to slow myself down. I say, "Okay, you got to log in." It takes a minute to do that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And and then you got to go swi select account, switch what share it, you know, and and type in the number of shares, type in the the the price. It's not arrow up and arrow down. So, I use that to kind of, you know, uh, pre prevent myself from being my own worst enemy. &gt;&gt; Perfect. Um, I've got two more concepts that you've mentioned that I'd like to come back to, um, to explore a little bit further. Uh, first, you've mentioned a few times. Um, you know, pivots, daily R2, um, R1. Not many people well actually you know I'm sure many people are familiar with that but there I think there's a certain amount of of people who watch this because it's maybe more of a intraday trader type um concept um yeah would you be explain kind of what those are what they signify and how you might use that 
[1:44] um you know like you said to to sell a little bit or watch how it acts at that level potentially sell um and how that kind of combines with everything we've talked about in view as well as um yeah multi time frame. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay. So, here's a five-minute chart of the Russell 2000, the IWM, and you look at this one today, and it gapped up. So, today's VWAP is above the blue 2-day VWAP, the three, the four, and the fiveday VWAP. I already know it's above a rising 5day moving average. So, I look at this and say, okay, you've got a chance to trade this stock. Do you chase the gap or do you wait for VWAP? So you wait for it to get back above VWAP and make a higher bar above VWAP. Stop below the low of the day. And it's a daily R1. So what you have are what's known as pivot R1, R2, R3, S1, S2, S3, and you go to S20 if you wanted it on 
[1:45] R20. They don't get hit very often. But I saw a study once that said the average stock on a given day will trade between daily S2 and daily R2 87% of the time. Only 13% of the time does a stock travel outside of that range. So again, you look at it and say if that's the odds and I buy the stock here, I don't really do price targets. So, my target isn't daily R2, but I know that's a level of interest because only zone. Um, so I look at and say that's a level of interest. And if it gets up to there, what I'm going to do is I'm going to either use my two-minute exit and say, okay, it's running into that. We have this level, this, so it hits it on this bar. The prior low was right here, 
[1:46] the prior two-minute low. So, sell right as it undercuts it right here. And you'd be surprised how often daily R2 acts as the perfect high of the day. Or if you're short, the perfect low of the day. I was short this, it didn't hold it. Short swimmer. Yes, I call it swimmer, but I saw today swimmer bounce off daily S2. Swarmer is what it's called. SWMR. Um, anyways, this one perfect today off of S2 at least for a bounce, right? And to cover a third of it as it makes that two-minute high right here and not experienced the fear that you're going to give it all back because it goes from, you know, $3029 up to 3229. Oh I just gave away $2. Now it looks like it's doing that. And then you start to get emotional. So I like So I can like most people even still be emotional. So that's the reason 
[1:47] I have rules like this is to say, okay, if they tell me 80% of the time it does this, well, when it gets up there, I want to have a rule about that. If I see that it hits the year-to- date anchor uh and the year or the anchor from earnings five days ago and it's looking like it's going to bounce, I don't want to buy it as bouncing, but I want to start looking at the shorter term time frame and buy the strength with a stop under here. And every plan has to have where's my stop? What's my exit? How do I manage the rest of rest of it? So, you sell a third there. Do you raise your stop on the balance under here? because it did couldn't even come down to the VWAP today and the buyers took back control. So, if it breaks that, does that mean it's probably heading towards the 2-day volume weighted average price and I don't want to give that up on a day trade? trade? trade? &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Excellent. So, and just to add a little context like these are based on statistics that's why &gt;&gt; Oh, sorry. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And And And &gt;&gt; so, yeah, go ahead. It's the prior there's a mathematic formula. I don't remember the how it goes. &gt;&gt; It's like a bell curve if if you can 
[1:48] visualize that. Most of the price action is going to be contained between it's not I don't think it's a perfect standard deviation whatever the calculation is but that's that's why most price action is between R1 and S1 it's like the the meat of the bell curve and then as you get to R1 R3 and R yeah R S2 and R2 are the the main meat and then it tails out and you get some R20s and you know &gt;&gt; on earnings gaps and crazy stuff &gt;&gt; stocks like car um and have crazy days there what's known as floor trade privets. So if anyone's interested, you can Google that, find the formula and most decent trading I mean all trading platforms have it these days &gt;&gt; are for you is it mostly on intraday time frames or do you look at on higher time frames is &gt;&gt; yeah great great question I used to look at on other time frames more like I would I would have a spreadsheet where I would put in uh I think it's the high low close uh are the for the three numbers it uses um so when you use so today's VWAP uh I'm sorry not VWAPS 
[1:49] pivots on uh the IWM are based on yesterday's action. If I want to use a weekly pivot or a monthly pivot or some people use quarterly or even yearly pivots, you use the prior year's high low close, the prior month's high low close, the prior week's high low close. &gt;&gt; Excellent. Um yeah, I just wanted to explore that a little bit further in case people are new to that. Um and then in that in that answer you start you also combined the fiveday moving moving average which I want to expand on a little bit more. So, how do you use the five-day new moving average both for uh the market as well as individual names? &gt;&gt; Um, so the five-day moving average, I've been using this for I don't know close to 20 years. And I know the the re the way I came up with it was when I first started using intraday charts, I would have, you know, the standard. I'd have the 20, 50, I expect I have 100, 150, and 200 day moving average. and then I would switch to a 10-minute time frame and it would 
[1:50] leave those moving averages on there. You wouldn't set moving averages for different time frames. So, I cleaned it up and started I I would have the 20, the 50, and the 200. And then I would move that over to my 10-minute time frame. And I noticed the 200 period moving average on the 10-minute time frame was really important. It it would just contain trends a lot. So, then I looked at I said, "Well, what's the significance?" 2,000 minutes. there's no significance to that. Um, so I started thinking about what is a day of trading which is 9:30 to 4, which is 3 uh 6 and a half hours, which is 390 minutes. 390 minutes times 5 days is 1,950 minutes. So a 1,950inut average is the true rolling five days. So on a 10-minute time frame, that's the frame, uh 1,950 divided by 15 is 130. So this is a 130 
[1:51] period moving average. So the way I looked at it was, okay, well that makes sense. It's a 5day moving average, not a whether you use the 200 or this, it's not going to matter. It's kind of like I say, whether you use the 20 simple or the 21 EMA, it's not going to matter. you're in the same you're in the right neighborhood and it's not a buy signal. So, I just look at it from an intermediate term perspective. If we have a rising 5-day moving average, we can spend a little bit of time below it, but are probably shakeouts. It's innocent till proven guilty. As it starts to consolidate in here and close below the 5day moving average at that point, I start to think, okay, well, if it breaks down, then it's going to drag the five-day moving average lower. So this vertical line here is where we were five days ago. So on this 15inute chart tomorrow, the first line will move forward one because it's 
[1:52] telling me that moving average calculation is now calculating this bar and everything from here over. It stopped using the bar where that orange is right now. So that just shifts forward. So, I could start to anticipate even if the stock goes sideways tomorrow, the SPY, the 5day moving average is going to do this because these prices are higher than these. We're averaging this data out tomorrow. For that 5day moving average to be declining tomorrow, the S&amp;P will have to come down below this level. That just that's not likely. And it will break this higher low first. So, is that likely? Well, there's no real catalyst tomorrow. Um, so no. Um, so I look at and say we can get rallies above the declining, it's guilty till proven innocent. As it starts to turn, okay, I'm not going to buy it extended. It pulls back and tests the five, it makes 
[1:53] the higher high here. It was extended. I didn't buy it. And this is when, you know, we're doing our thing at 6:30 Thursday night. Um, and that was Friday. This was, you know, the uh, so I didn't buy it, like I said, until here, actually, or Yeah. No, I day traded it there. Traded it bought it for real here. And now it's still making higher highs and higher lows above the 5day moving average. My stop is now here. This is the most recent relevant higher low for half of this position. &gt;&gt; Gotcha. Yeah. Excellent. Um, all right. I've got three questions from X Twitter. Two serious ones, one more funny one. Um the first is from JT Ticker Monkey. Uh he said, "What are the advantages and disadvantages of the different calculation methods for anchored VWAP? Um if the ultimate pivot on a gap up is the open, would it make more sense to use the open as the anchor versus OLC by 4 default? Would using the 
[1:54] HVC be more effective or are they also close that comes out in a wash?" I know you've got firm opinions on this. Yeah, &gt;&gt; it does come out in the wash eventually. The true VWAP, the only true VWAP is a tick chart. Okay. So, what we want to do is we want to say what is the average participant, not just that first participant where it opened, where it might have traded, you know, the most volume. It's it's important similar to the IPO when you get the first volume spike. But what I want to know is right on that first moment that it moves higher. Well, if I put a VWAP on a the day, it's not going to tell me anything at all. Is there going to be a dot climbing up and down that 10-minute bar? So, I look at the one minute bar, and do I want to when I look at that one minute bar, do I want to know what happened in the first second of trading of the day, that opening print, or do I want to know what happened with all 60 seconds, all the transactions in the 60 
[1:55] seconds? I don't want to know just the open because that might have been 60% of the volume, a big piece of it, but the other 40% of the volume that occurred during those 59 seconds, those matter just as much. So I look at it and say the most accurate we can get is open, high, low, close divided by four because again unless we're looking at tick that's the ultimate but it's we're looking at approximation. You know the first 10 minutes of the day I want to look at the OHLC divided by four on a one minute chart. After 10 minutes I'll say okay now I can switch to a two-minute chart. I don't need that type of granul you thank you um 30 minutes into the day I'll switch it to a five minute time frame and leave it there unless it's like one of these little 28% ATR stocks then I'll have that on a one minute chart all day long and I'll be 
[1:56] anchoring from that high 45 minutes ago and that low 17 minutes ago but it's open and high low close divided by four always for me that's most complete and we want to know the volume weighted average price average of everyone. &gt;&gt; Yep. Excellent. Um, we've already touched on the second point, but it might be worth going over again just to reiterate some good points. Um, how do you differentiate between a healthy consolidation around the anchor VWAP, uh, versus distribution that will more likely break down below it? Okay, that's a great question. I mean, it's similar to what we were just talking about in the SPY is that, you know, let's just say that this 5day moving average was a VWAP, just for argument sake. and we look at it and say, "Well, it's crossing above and below the VWAP. It's not telling me anything." Well, just the fact that it's crossing above and below is telling you something. It's telling you there's indecision. So, you look at the market and you say, "Well, is there structure here to trade?" So, again, it it says, you know, here's our range that 
[1:57] we were in. Is there any value in selling below that VWAP or buying above that VWAP? Is this healthy consolidation? I don't know. We don't you know at at during this consolidation we don't know. So we can look at stage analysis and say hey this was stage three. This was stage four. How do we know it was stage four? Because it made a lower low and this ended up being stage one because we were turning sideways. This is officially where stage two began. This could have turned into stage three if it did this. Right? If it did that that could have been stage four. Instead, we're looking at this and saying is, you know, some so some people get hung up on this. They say, "Hey, it looks like a stage three distribution." It does, but it could also look like a pause with a time correction, a stage one continuation back into stage two, which it ended up being. So, I don't differentiate. I don't I'm not going to 
[1:58] beat myself up trying to categorize it. I'm going to wait for the market to tell me, does it want to hold this level? So, like buying a pullback. That's why I don't buy the pullback to the VWAP because it might hold or it might just slice right through it. It's not for me to decide. Again, I don't want to do the dirty work un let other people say we believe in this enough that we're going to create support in here and you know that this is this I outlined on uh on my weekend video saying you know if it pulls back down, we want to see how it behaves at the fiveday moving average and the prior resistance. And you know, someone will tell me, "Hey, thanks, Brian. I bought it right on the fiveday moving average. That was perfect." Like, well, okay, great. But that was really risky. You were taking and in hindsight, it worked. This is a lower risk entry, I would tell you, because you had this higher low and you had a higher high. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Excellent. All right. Now, for the fun one. Uh I forget who who said this, uh but whoever you are, it's a good question. Is it true that you have only 
[1:59] price bays uh copyrighted and protected and a sniper ready to shoot anybody who uses it uh without your consent? &gt;&gt; Everything except the sniper is true. &gt;&gt; Yeah. But um you know a client of Alpha Trends who's a retired lawyer um he offered to do this and I said, "Yeah, that'd be cool. Have a trademark. That's that's awesome." And he said, 'Well, Brian, in order to uh make your trademark valid, you have to enforce it. Well, I don't want to be a dick. And you know, you know, but there was there was like somebody selling coffee mugs with Only Price Pays. He said, I'm going to send them a letter. So, he sent them a letter and that's part of the file. And so, I think there was somebody else that he sent a letter to that maybe had t-shirts or something. So, uh it's 100% true except the sniper and uh but there's a lawyer who's sniping. There you go. Um, all right. Just two wrap-up questions. This has been fantastic. First of all, thanks so much for your time. Um, other than only price pays, 
[2:00] what are some of your other just favorite trading quotes that you want to maybe rapid fire shoot us with? Um, I know you've got so many in your books and and all of that, but um yeah, what are what are some favorite sayings or or stuff that is true and and uh you want to to to &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um, simplicity is the market's greatest disguise. You know, that's a a play on Michelangelo's simplicity is the ultimate sophistication, and it's true everywhere. I mean, just get back to basics. Coaches will always say, "We got to get back to basics. We got to get back to basics. We got to run the ball. We got to do this." Um, so that's one of them. Uh, them. Uh, them. Uh, well, you know, I have this little poster with all of them, too. We only know support and resistance after the fact. That's a big one. That's why they're potential levels. They're levels of interest. Um, Um, Um, let's see. Uh, what are some of the other ones? There's so many I repeat. &gt;&gt; We can show that post or two. We'll we'll add it in posts here to to insert 
[2:01] for everybody. Um, one one last question for you, Brian. Uh, what advice do you have for traders watching this that are maybe earlier in their journey or they just want to kind of take that next step, really, um, you know, get focused on this, really push the boundaries of what they're capable of. What advice would you have for traders who, you know, want to improve at trading and and really get going? &gt;&gt; Okay, product promotion time. I don't have mine up like Richard's, but start with these two books right here and focus on the simplicity. You know, if if you're less than a year in the market, don't buy this yet. Go over to this book. Understand market structure first. understand the fractal nature of market uh structure on all time frames and just don't over complicate it. Use some simple things. Have a pet indicator maybe two. Maybe it's the MACD, the RSI or whatever moon cycle it might be. But focus on and and it it is it's it's 
[2:02] trademarked because you know only price pays the rest of it. This market now oil's over 100. The market's supposed to be going down. It's up on light volume. Breath is deteriorating. It's supposed to be going down, but the market does nothing but go up. Don't argue with the market. Look at the market and manage risk. risk. risk. &gt;&gt; Excellent. And I'll add your YouTube channel. Fantastic resource. Your your website and you know, we've done a lot of couple interviews as well that um you know, if you really enjoyed this one, really recommend watching those because we dive into your routine, all that stuff, different aspects that maybe we didn't cover as in depth today. So, I'd recommend watching those and you've done a lot of other tremendous uh interviews as well. Um, so yeah, that's it. Brian, thank you so much for taking the time uh to be here. I I always enjoy speaking with you. I always learn something new. And um just like that simplicity quote, I think you explain things in a very, you know, coherent way that really resonates with people. So, thank you so much for for educating others and and 
[2:03] for being a part of this, writing these books and all that. So, uh thanks for your time. Uh to everybody watching, I hope you guys really enjoyed. If you're sticking with us until the end, uh, comment comment. What should they comment down below? Anchor VWAP. Sure. &gt;&gt; There you go. Comment that down below so we'll know you're you're a true true fan. And, uh, thanks so much for watching. Leave a like down below if you enjoyed. Subscribe if you're new to the channel. And we'll see you guys in the next one. next one. next one. &gt;&gt; Cheers. [music] &gt;&gt; [music] 