
[0:00] [music] &gt;&gt; I think we can go ahead and get going. So, yep, uh it's my pleasure to introduce uh Marius Stamatudis. Uh he, of course, is a top performer in the US IC, uh fantastic educator, fantastic trader, and uh someone I love to chat with and always learn something new from. And today we're going to be covering a key setup that um I want to learn more about, and I'm sure everybody attending wants to as well. Uh there's been some really great opportunities for it in the recent markets. And uh yeah, parabolic shorts. So, uh with that said, uh thanks so much for joining us here today. This should be fantastic. And uh yeah, Marius, I'll I'll pass it over to you. you. you. Yeah, tha- thanks for your kind words, Richard. It's always uh a pleasure being here and uh contributing to the community, the the the great community you have built, to be honest. So, So, So, yeah, let's start. Um So, to to to today's topic, as you all know, is uh parabolic shorts, right? So, uh let's start with um 
[0:01] uh with a definition of it, uh or generally what is a parabolic phenomenon, right? What what do we mean, essentially? So, um this is my definition of it. So, th- these are the moves that happen in the markets where, let's say, a selective asset performs a really powerful move to the upside in a short amount of time with big percentage increase relative to its history, all right? And uh it's really evident because the slope in the price action change changes, right? It's really evident. So, as you see here, for example, example, example, on a parabolic phenomenon that happened really recently, uh on Avis, car ticker symbol, we had, you know, a stock that uh wasn't doing anything, essentially, right? And in less than 1 month, you know, it exploded. So, let me open it up up open it up in the platform, actually to see it better. it better. it better. Uh Uh Uh and we also had in the history, uh you 
[0:02] know, a similar move, but let's go to the to the the to the the to the current era. So, you see that car wasn't Avis wasn't doing anything, right? But But But then it started, you know, accelerating really rapidly. You see here, it was beaten down and boom, in a short amount of time, big percentage increases. It went from $100 into nearly 850. Okay? And then it exhausted itself. Okay? So, the change if in slope is really evident, as you can see it here. Okay? It's It's like a vertical line. Now, Now, Now, what's the whole game here essentially? Uh the whole game is being able to spot the zones the zones the zones where the phenomenon can actually exhaust. exhaust. exhaust. Okay? Okay? Okay? Because Because Because uh what usually follows after all this build-up, okay? Are powerful moves to 
[0:03] the downside. And you already know the phrase, stairs up, elevator down, right? So, this is essentially what happens here in those phenomena. phenomena. phenomena. Now, um Now, um Now, um these phenomena that are you know, the parabolic uh phenomena, the parabolic moves, uh these are timeless. No No matter how far back you go to history and study historical examples, you will see it over and over and over. Even, you know, decades back, centuries back. Like, it's a it's a structural tendency of the market, okay? Uh and it's a phenomenon that is bound to occur, okay? Through different combos, let's say of uh dynamics or mechanics in the markets. Sometimes it's um um um you know, the the the narrative reflexivity and reinforcement of the the story and narrative. Uh sometimes it's due to options activity, sometimes it's due to, you know, the available float uh or the ownership structure or or you 
[0:04] know, the let's say the the short interest. And there are combos of all those reasons, right? But listen to that and it's important. No matter what the forces in play are, the structure that this phenomenon materializes is always the same. It always manifest the same. Uh and I've said that many times on Twitter and elsewhere, but I will repeat it here uh uh uh that that that everything that happens in the markets, even if you think like it's a 4D four-dimensional chess or something with hundreds uh thousands of forces in play, all those forces have only one way to express themselves. We don't have many ways uh uh uh of expression in the markets if you think about it. It's only through price and volume, right? Uh and that's something to keep in mind. Uh that's what makes monitoring price 
[0:05] structure and price action overall so important in whatever we do, not only for this parabolic stuff, right? right? right? Uh and and it's interesting because when I called uh car uh potential short opportunity this day here on Twitter, right? One day before it materialized. And Richard, you you retweeted that, right? If I recall correctly. correctly. correctly. Uh Uh Uh you know, there were many people that were saying, you know, it it's different this time. Uh it has a tiny float. Uh it has a massive short interest. It's the ownership is concentrated. Uh you will get burned. It's different this time. Guess what? Whatever no matter what the forces in play are, play are, play are, um you know, and we are aware of them, of course. Structure always manifest the same. same. same. So, we will review this example because it's a recent one, later. Uh, Uh, Uh, so, so, you know, you see these moves are not hard to spot, to be honest. Of 
[0:06] course, we have scans, uh, but but, you know, in for the majority of them, if if you monitor the markets daily, if you have some scanners for, you know, monthly gainers, weekly gainers, even if you are on Twitter and are active, uh, you will see those names that get parabolic, all right? So, what's the hard part? What's the hard part in this kind of moves? What makes them hard? Right? Right? Right? Yeah, Jo- Jose, uh, Jose, it's always different this time, exactly, right? That's what I'm saying. But, what makes them hard? them hard? them hard? To finding the to find the days where the exhaustion after all this build-up build-up build-up can actually happen. Can actually materialize. Timing, correct, Bill. Okay? Because, uh, if you're early, you will get trapped, chopped, irritated. If you are late, you 
[0:07] miss some amazing opportunities like this one. this one. this one. And that was one of my biggest trades this year, but I couldn't do it with shares, unfortunately. I couldn't find anything to locate. I did it with options. So, I wish I had more size. Uh, but these are amazing opportunities. Okay? And we had a lot already this year. year. year. One is CAR, Avis, um, uh, what was the other one? Silver, gold exhaustion, life-changing trades, right? So, it's a it's a timely concept to to discuss, especially now that the market is heating up, uh, and there's a chance also that uh, certain things that we have that are dominating for so long, uh, there is a chance of of some names heating up like memory and storage, SanDisk, MU. They can heat up. Look at them. them. them. Right? Right? Right? They're not ready yet. I'm not saying they can't bleed out, but they're not yet in that parabolic zone. 
[0:08] MU, MU, MU, right? Or other semiconductor names. Um, Um, Um, you know, it's time it's timely. We can have a lot of opportunities if the market heats up a lot. a lot. a lot. A lot more than what it is now. All right? right? right? Um, Um, Um, yeah, see see BYND we will explore it later as well. It's a nice example as well. Both both on the long side and the the short side. So, getting back, uh, the reason that we're having this webinar today, uh, is because there are two benefits uh, out of this phenomenon. All right? Um, Um, Um, so the two benefits before we get into the technicals and all the, you know, the nuances are that, uh, the first one is, you know, taking advantage of this on the short side. Because if you nail them correctly, um, you can push your equity curve 5%, know, rare occasions in a day or two. 
[0:09] Okay? So, Okay? So, Okay? So, they're great opportunities. Uh, the second reason, and it's even more important, okay? Is that if you're already long in some assets, to have more patience, to not get overly frightened, uh, to have a better sense of where you should take, uh, uh, uh, a partial interest rate more effectively. Okay? Where the probabilities of exhaustion are elevated. Uh, especially now in the market like there are so many people calling MU, AXTI, SanDisk parabolic. They are extended, but they're not parabolic yet. All right? Because if, for example, or INT C, right? Like let me give you an example, a short example. You know, if if you say that oh, INT C is parabolic here, it you know, it will exhaust, and you sell everything, even if you are long and I'm long from this base here. Okay? Then you miss out on this move, which is another 50%, 
[0:10] right? So, right? So, right? So, you need some criteria, some filters to not be frightened, to know where to do things more effectively, both on the you know, if you are already long, or if you want to short something, all right? Uh it's a beneficial you know, set up or strategy to know. Um so, let's get back. The first uh um um um you know, the first thing that I want to discuss as a filter, let's say, we need to address the categories of stocks that we usually see um the parabolic moves happen. And I separate them um myself in three main categories, all right? right? right? The first category uh is the the one that I call momentum leaders. leaders. leaders. Okay? So, this is the category of stocks that, you know, have have been in stage two for many months, even more than a year sometime, uh sometimes, you know, they create 
[0:11] powerful momentum trends, and at some point usually the last inning of the move in stage two is where the parabolic phenomenon occurs. occurs. occurs. Okay? And it happens over and over and over again. Okay? SMCI as I have this you know, in this example was in that category, right? Look at this. If we go back in history, there is was a momentum leader, right? That had a really big momentum move for months, okay? And up until this point, everyone knew about this stock. Uh even non-trading, you know, people, like people that don't trade actively. Everyone Everyone Everyone knew about this stock, right? And that was the last inning of the move. That was the parabolic move. And we'll get into details, all right? Um Um Um the other one is, you know, uh MSTR, right? We had a big momentum move for months. And then the last inning of the move in stage two, 
[0:12] stage two, stage two, you know, it was a parabolic move. And after this move, it actually, you know, entered into stage three and stage four later, right? Uh the same with uh uh uh you know, United States Antimony Corporation, a big momentum move, okay? That was becoming more and more powerful, and then you get a massive acceleration here, right? When the themes of critical minerals and battery stocks were active back in October last year. Okay? And as I said, SNDK, it's kind of similar. It's a momentum leader, okay? Um Um Um So, So, So, this is the first category, right? AHTI is the same as well. Okay? This is the first category. The the second category that the parabolic phenomenon materializes are in IPOs, fresh IPOs, I mean, okay? Uh Uh Uh and it depends on the activity on IPOs, like in 2021, we had a ton of them. So, this you know, this was a a frequent 
[0:13] setup. setup. setup. Um Um Um we had, for example, Palantir a few years back in its IPO going parabolic. Look at this. And then exhausting in 1 day or 2 before gaining strength again. Going parabolic and then exhaustion for 2 days. Uh VFS, you know, that was in 2023 where where I I was in the championship as well, you know, going parabolic then exhaust. So, that's the second category, okay? And the third category which is the the most frequent out of them all them all them all uh uh uh is the let's say the thematic bursts or generally random energy bursts. Okay? Okay? Okay? So, this consists of stocks that um let's say are part of a theme. Uh Uh Uh and just accelerated accelerate massively massively massively uh from nowhere or uh it can be random stocks that don't 
[0:14] have anything in them and just, you know, uh perform a crazy move like Avis. Okay? So, back in the example I have here is back in you know, um in 2024 December we had quantum computing as a theme heating up. Qubit was one of these names, all right? And it went parabolic and then exhausted, okay? What are other random let's say bursts? Um Um Um Trump Media Look at this. Let me find it here. Do you see that here? here? here? Random burst. Okay? Went up and then exhausted. All right? We will get into the details. I'm just giving the high-level picture, all right? right? right? Uh what was another one? Tiger, right? The same. Random, nothing going on then exhausted, okay? Car was similar to them. Okay? Okay? Okay? These are the random energy bursts. Um so 
[0:15] Um so Um so um what what is another name that goes parabolic but uh uh my filters are not geared that uh not not fulfilled yet that we will discuss. I M C L, right? Look at all this move. It hasn't fulfilled my filters yet. We'll see. Okay? Okay? Okay? Um Um Um so so so uh and what theme what theme does MXL belong to? belong to? belong to? Who knows? Who knows? Who knows? What's the theme uh MaxLinear is is within? Only semis? Semis, let's say it's the the industry label, right? Sector does industry label. It has some alignment with AI networking and optics, right? Correct? Correct? Correct? So, So, So, since this is a webinar, let's let's talk about themes in general because I think it's important for everyone to to understand. A quick parenthesis here. 
[0:16] Uh Uh Uh This is actually the importance of of to monitor the market and understand where its stock belongs to. Okay? Because there's something beautiful that happens uh with themes in general. general. general. Okay? And pay attention to that. Many times Many times Many times the stocks within the themes, okay? Uh especially on the themes that are becoming really dominant, move in waves. And we see it over and over, okay? That's that's a hidden edge. All right? That not a lot of retail traders capture, okay? I mean, the AI networking and optics theme is dominant for so long, right? We had names like CN, CN, CN, you know, being really active for all those months and dominant, LITE all those months, right? Um Coherent all those months, right? AXTI 
[0:17] AXTI AXTI They were carrying the theme, right? But look look look Look at this move here. All these moves that I showed you. Look when AAOI started emerging. Okay? After Okay? Look at Look at it on February. You all You already had AXT being dominant. As I said, Light, all these names, right? It was after this that they they they uh applied the you know, optoelectronics started moving. Right? Accelerated on February. Correct? And uh you know, then GFS was doing nothing and then accelerated on April. on April. on April. MXL recently. Marvell recently. recently. recently. Silicon recently. So, knowing the themes that are dominant generally, generally, generally, uh you know, helps a lot with these kind of movements because they happen in waves. 
[0:18] waves. waves. Okay? The same with data center power. You had BE, you know, being really dominant all this time. BW. Okay? Okay? Okay? Being dominant in data center power theme, right? And then BE had amazing news here. Okay? We had a dominant theme and then what happened? AFCE AFCE AFCE broke out here. It wasn't doing so much. Okay? And BE with AFCE had some another theme and you know, connection which was fuel cells. Okay? And one day later BW, you know, broke out in the AI data center theme. So, it's really important and and Richard, excuse me for that parenthesis because it's important for everyone to know know know uh uh um around the themes because they are correlated with the parabolic moves as well. Yep. Uh when a thing is maturing and maturing and maturing, you know, it's the last timing that we see, you know, a ton of these moves. Uh but it's important to understand that themes move in waves, all right? 
[0:19] Uh Uh Uh So, So, So, um um um Did you get my question? Before you Before you Before you &gt;&gt; for sure. Is there a period in the larger theme where you see more parallel parabolic moves in these sub themes or they it can kind of happen anytime. No, it can happen anytime, but usually you get you get you get a more condensed let's say uh appearance when the theme matures a lot, you know, and it's the last timing of all the leaders in that, right? Uh and that's why I'm mentioning these themes that were dominant for so long. As we have these momentum leaders because we might get get some dense activity, right? Um and as you move, you know, into the themes, you get the strong names first and then, you know, the more speculative ones. ones. ones. Okay, and then you have the reflexivity cycle and everything then exhausts, right? right? right? Um Um Um but this theme in waves is important to understand both for going long and 
[0:20] understanding stuff and both, you know, to understand when you know, the situation is kind of uh weird to monitor your risk, okay? Um Um Um so so that's about it. Um Now, let's let's discuss um um um you know, the um um um I mentioned the rarity of the categories, okay? Like this is the most frequent out of them all. This is depending on the year we have how many IPOs we have. And this is the, you know, the least frequent because you need great markets, you need amazing leaders, right? So it's not not every year we're going to have a ton of these, right? Um Um Um so let's start with the selection filters. filters. filters. Okay? Okay? Okay? Um Um Um and you know, I know that everyone is interested for the filters. We're getting into them, right? But we need some higher level ideas, the why before the how, right? Um so let let's start with them. 
[0:21] Um as I said, the the point here uh is uh is uh is you know, I try to keep it very simple but very strict at the same time. Nothing complex. Okay? Okay? Okay? But strict enough. Why? Okay? Because especially if you follow me on Twitter, you see when I call, you know, for this parabolic shorts, I tend to usually mention a phrase over and over. Okay? So look at some examples of the opposite, you know, the past years like Qubit on December 17th. I say here uh, you know, tomorrow or the day after. When I mentioned about Donald J. Trump Media Media Media one day before it happened, I said today and or tomorrow. When I mentioned car recently, one day before it happened, I said today or 
[0:22] tomorrow. tomorrow. tomorrow. Okay? Okay? Okay? What does that mean? That That That Did you see me posting every single day about car? about car? about car? No, right? So what does this mean that the selection criteria um you know, should not make you hit powerful moves day after day after day. The biggest problem with traders with these setups is you know, if they're already long, they sell immaturely or if they want to short, they try hitting the button for 5 course it it will eventually happen, right? But getting hit every day, having losses every day is really irritating. Trust me. Okay? Okay? Okay? Because people have serious damages on trying trying trying to short this kind of stuff immaturely. Okay? You can have two three four five six losses and the ramp up. Okay? And 
[0:23] then you get irritated, you might increase your size, you might do event trading, you might get attached to a stock and you might lose 6-7%. Okay? So, the key on this setup is not having having having small losses. Okay? Because even if you have small losses, if you're getting punched over and over, you will get irritated. Okay? Okay? Okay? Um so, it's the the the key here is try to align yourself in the places where the probabilities are elevated. The the the the places where matter most. most. most. Okay? And also have a time window. That's why I always mention it. It's a It's a rule for myself. When everything is fulfilled on my side, okay? I give it a time window, today or tomorrow. If the time window passes, um you know, I don't look at the stock anymore. That's my time window. Because it's easy to get attached. All right, so far? far? far? Now, Now, Now, um um um And again, as I said, you can short on SMCI here, and here, 
[0:24] and here, and here, here. This was the only day, and you will understand with the criteria, um um um that everything fulfilled. All right? So, So, So, let's start with the criteria. Okay? Keep it simple, but strict, okay? You don't want signals to flag uh to flash every single day. Now, um um um the the first filter that I have as a selection criteria is um um um the percentage of the move in correlation to market cap. Okay? Why do I say in correlation with the market cap? Because you must make everything relative, right? A company with with with a capitalization of 50 million moves differently than the one that has uh you know, know, know, uh 500 billion. Okay? One can make a 200% move really easily, another one, you know, is uh extremely rare. Okay, it might be exceptional. 
[0:25] So, that's why you correlate these two, percentage increase with market cap. Now, another detail that uh it's important is when I monitor the percentage increase, I don't look at it from the start of the move, but from the start of the last big pivot. The last base. Usually, as a proxy, you can use the you know, the last stats of the 20-moving average. I mean, this is really crucial, okay? And I will explain with examples. So, So, So, uh uh uh based on the capitalization, I have these thresholds, all right? So, for companies with uh a hundred billion market cap or more, okay? The minimum threshold before I even get interested is 50% okay? From the last base, the last pivot, the stock must move at least 50% for me just to get interested. Okay? These tend to move around these range. range. range. Okay? Anything that is closer to the 
[0:26] upper upper upper uh bound here or even more, I consider it an extreme move. Okay? This will be used later. Now, for companies between 10 billion and and 100 billion market cap, this is the minimum move move that I require as a threshold just to get interested. Okay? These tend to move along these ranges in percentage increase. And anything that gets more than this, I consider it in my mind as extreme for this specific category. Okay? And for companies that have less than 10 billion, billion, billion, the minimum is 200% increase from the last pivot, as I said. Okay? They tend to move around these ranges. So, anything that gets into the far right end of this zone, I consider it extreme. If it extends exceeds that, even more extreme. Okay? So, you might have noticed that I used the word extreme, extreme, extreme. It's important because the extremeness 
[0:27] of the move along with how rare the phenomenon is, okay? Can help you determine what you can expect in the exhaustion. Do you expect a 20% exhaustion on the downside, a 30% or 40%, 50%? It depends. Okay? Now, this is the first filter, all right? Let's get into the second filter. This is what makes the difference, to be honest. Okay? So, the second filter um um um you know, you know, you know, uh this is what helps me align to the days where the actual probabilities emerge. emerge. emerge. Okay? Okay? Okay? Um and it has to do with uh uh uh the expression, let's say, of the price action. The expression of the structure itself. itself. itself. So, when when I studied parabolic moves over the last 10 years, let's say, that I'm doing it, um 
[0:28] um um uh I I distilled, let's say, three essences of expression, three main categories. I named them the ants, the green red and the green red and the textbook, all right? So, let let's go over the ants first. What are the ants? What happens here? You will see many, many green days that are successive to one another with small ranges. Pay attention to that, small ranges, okay? Uh one after the other. So, when I see this expression alone, I avoid I avoid I avoid the, you know, shorting, okay? Even if this filter, no matter the category, is already fulfilled. Let's say we had the category of a company with less than 10 billion, and it had performed a 400% move. But let's say I see this expression alone, alone, alone, I don't touch it. Okay? Okay? Okay? And this happened with car. Look at car at least that earlier before we get into the answer. Do you 
[0:29] see what I'm saying? Here, this is the answer expression. Okay? So, if I see that expression alone, alone, alone, um um um you know, I don't mess with the stock. I want something extra. Okay? And I'll show you what this is. Now, the second expression is the green red. red. red. Okay? Okay? Okay? And this is, you know, it's easy. Like you have green days followed by red days, green days, red days, or vice versa. Okay? This is really common. Again, when I see this alone, even if the first filter is fulfilled, I'm not interested. There is a behavioral behavioral reason that I'm not interested. I need something extra, a cherry on top. Okay? It's really easy to get chopped up here and here. and here. and here. Okay? The only, let's say, category, if it expresses itself uh uh uh exactly like this, the I'm interested in the textbook, right? Which means we need at least two days of really extensive big ATR days, big 
[0:30] green days, even gaps as well. Okay? They can happen with gaps, I mean. Okay? Okay? Okay? I I need at least two. They usually are between two to four. Okay? But at the I need at least two consecutive big green ATR days. Evident evident big green days. Okay? I need at least two. The bare minimum. Now, look where the problem is. Okay? So, you have these two categories that are really frequent. Okay? But they don't have a a good accuracy. And you have a a category like this, which has good accuracy, but it's not frequent. frequent. frequent. Okay? Okay? Okay? So, this is a problem. And I told you there is a behavioral reason of why I avoid these two. Anyone that knows what the behavioral reason of why when I see these two categories alone, I 
[0:31] don't intervene? I will wait for you to write, maybe. I see George says no character change. What's Think of the first principles, right? Go back to the first principles of how this formation is created. Right? Why I'm not interested in these formations? Some of you got it. All right. So, the the slower the upward move is, okay? If you have small green days, let's say, the more time individuals, funds, whoever is active, uh uh uh the more time they have to act rationally rationally rationally to adjust their risk, more time to adjust their thoughts, their clarity, their reasoning. Okay? With hands, okay? okay? okay? There's plenty of time to gradually sell, mask your behavior, 
[0:32] uh time to adjust what you think, okay? The same happens here. Pressure builds, builds, releases here. Builds, builds, releases here. In the textbook format, though, okay? When you have a 200% increase, let's say, in three, four days, no one has time to adjust. This is the epitome of irrationality, okay? okay? okay? There is not enough time for massive selling to take place. All the market, all the participants are dragged dragged dragged into this exponential move. Right? Everything is amplified. And when the pressure is finally relieved, relieved, relieved, that's when you get massive moves. So, this is why let's say this is the behavioral reason of why I prefer this expression. Okay? Because panic is significantly enhanced. enhanced. enhanced. Okay? And you bet on the massive release of the build-up of the pressure pressure 
[0:33] that has been built up. Okay? You need to monitor the pressure building up. But as I said, there is a problem, right? Because these two expressions are really frequent, you see them all the time. This is rare. Okay? So, what's the workaround? Can we have both frequency and accuracy at the same time? Is there a way? Again, frequent, you can get chopped up. Accurate, rare. So, how can we have be frequent uh uh uh Can we have let's say phenomena that are parabolic phenomena that are frequent but have also accuracy? Okay? The answer is pretty simple, right? Everything is simple. George got it. Combination of all. Okay? We combine the best of those two words, okay? And we 
[0:34] create hybrid formations. Okay? Okay? Okay? So, if I don't have the textbook but I have only the ants or the green red, okay? Which are frequent. Okay? After the first criteria is already fulfilled, the minimum thresholds as we discussed, the percentage move, okay? This is where I want to know when the pressure is being built up massively. So, I want to see see see expressions of the textbook being materialized into these two formations. Okay? So, you can have the green red. Okay? I will wait for characteristics of the textbook to emerge. Okay? You can have the hands and then one, two days, big range days, maybe you can have even gaps. Okay? Which is similar to the textbook. Okay? So, we create hybrid formations. Okay? 
[0:35] Okay? Okay? Uh we need at least one, preferably two days of uh of uh of uh you know, of this type of this characteristics of the textbook being, you know, evident into these formations. Okay? This is my adjustment. All right? And and even though it's really, let's say, it's really simple, this is the adjustment that helps me get close to where the probabilities are are elevated for an exhaustion. Okay? So, that's how you achieve frequency frequency frequency in a setup, but also have better accuracy. Okay? So, let's look at the SMCI SMCI SMCI as a starting example to combine uh what we have said so far. So, let's discuss everything, all right? And we can do we will do more examples. So, the move started, you know, here, right? right? right? The parabolic move. Richard, if you remember, this was a day we had the our first 
[0:36] first first interview. Yep. &gt;&gt; On January 19th, after the, you know, the competition. So, what's the first thing you need to look at, all right? We said we need to look at at at the the first filter is the percentage increase, correct? So, what was the capitalization of SMCI at the start of the move back then? Anyone knows in what category it belongs to? It belonged to that one, okay? Right? Inside this category. So, the minimum move that we require just to get interested is 100%, is 100%, is 100%, okay? It's only after that move that I'm, you know, getting interested. So, let's look at the expression. Let's actually find where the 100% is from the last pivot as I said, you can use a the proxy of the 20 moving average as well. So, are we here yet? No. This is a 79% increase. I'm not even interested. Okay? Let's see here. 
[0:37] is where your minimum minimum threshold is fulfilled. Okay? Okay? Okay? Now, when you look at this, what's the expression we look? Is the green red, right? You have green days with red days as well, correct? What did I say? Can you trade this expression alone? No. No. No. Okay? You need something extra. And what's the extra thing? When the first filter is already there, you need to see a combination of the factors. You need to see some textbook characteristics into that. So, tell me, I will go slowly and you need to tell me where you see it, all right? You need at least one or two days with big candles, all right? Tell me when you see it. Like these candles should look a bit different from what you have seen, all right? Now, now, okay. 
[0:38] I like the capital letters, all right? Now, Now, Now, all right? So, you now you see one, two big days with gaps. Okay? So, what this says is, all right, this day here has a lot of probabilities based on the two characteristics we discussed to actually exhaust. exhaust. exhaust. You got it, all right? So, So, So, um um um that's the trick, okay? And we will discuss the bonus factors, but the problem is if you try to short this day and this day and this day and this day and this day, or if you are long and are fearful, you lost the game, okay? I was long from this move up until here, okay? Sold most of my partials, then went short. Okay? Okay? Okay? So, So, So, you see that evidently here. So, let's let's discuss now um some bonus factors, all right? 
[0:39] So, So, So, what are the bonus factors we look at or personally look at, okay? As I said, I keep it simple. The first bonus factor is the volume, all right? If I have extreme volume on the day that actually the previous two criteria are fulfilled, all right? all right? all right? If I have extreme volume, uh if it's the highest volume within 1 year, even better, okay? If I have extreme volume, that's a bonus factor for me. But listen to that, only when the previous criteria are fulfilled, okay? The percentage gain and the structure. Okay? This is a huge bonus factor for me if I see it. Is that dollar volume or just shares? &gt;&gt; No no dollar no dollar, that's important. It's uh it's the volume the clean volume because the dollar volume is naturally to increase. The price accelerates, even on the same volume, you can see increase on the dollar volume, correct? So, the volume is a more 
[0:40] more more um it is better to look at this. Generally, on all the other stuff that I do, on momentum trading on longs, I look at dollar volume. But for the parabolic, when I want to know when the participation peaks, I look at the you know, at the clean at the simple volume. You understand why, Richard, Wright, because when you get these massive increases, let's say a stock was at 500 yesterday and it goes to 800 that day, of course, when you multiply price with volume, you will see increase in dollar volume, probably, right? So, So, So, the one is volume, and that's a nice question, Richard. Thanks. And the second one is the emotional numbers. Okay? And what does what does the highest volume mean actually? What does it mark, right? Why why why why No, no, Hugo, gap up is not a must. If it happens, that's great, okay? Because how I look at gaps, everyone. Okay? When I look at gaps, it's like my mind sees something like this. Look at this. 
[0:41] Because a gap has price within, right? So, my mind sees something like this. It's like I have this, correct? That's my two big days. Okay? That's what gaps mean. They fill, you know, the price, okay? Um Um Um So, So, So, to get back, um Yeah, the what does an exceptional volume or the highest volume in that day means? means? means? That you have extreme participation. That you have FOMO, correct? That you have crowded behavior. It marks that the pressure is build up. So, more probable press uh let's say release of pressure to happen soon. And again, we are never sure, right? I don't want you after this, you know, webinar or if you ever study this, to have to to say, "Oh, I'm sure I'm 100% right that, you know, I'm going to have 
[0:42] that day, you know, the exhaustion day." Because we play with probabilities here, right? We can't put the market in a box. Okay? I have really good accuracy on that setup, high win rate, but still it's a probability. Okay? Okay? Okay? And that's why I have the time window, as I said. as I said. as I said. And the second bonus factor is emotional numbers. That's easy to understand, right? right? right? Um again, only when the previous filters are all fulfilled. Emotional levels, whole numbers. If you have a stock that was trading at at $2 at $2 at $2 and now it's sitting at $10, that's a whole number. If you have a stock that was trading at uh uh uh you know, uh $23 and it hits for the first time $100, that's a whole number. If you have a stock that was trading at $220, $220, $220, if it hits the $500 mark, that's a whole number. Okay? So, it's relative. Um and again, the bonuses mean nothing without the first two filters. 
[0:43] So, let's look at SMCI again. And Morris, can I jump in one more question about bonus two? Um do you also look at whole numbers in the market capitalization of the stock? So, if for the first time they hit um trading, you know, in the 5 billion range, is that also a whole number or it's more just the share price? Those are the whole numbers that you're looking for. Yeah, that's a nice question. No, I'm more focused on the price itself rather than when they hit a milestone in the market cap, right? Um Um Um at least I haven't studied that element so much. so much. so much. Maybe there's something there. Uh so, it's a it's an interesting observation. Um Um Um So, look at SMCI to get back. Um Um Um We said here is when the first filter fulfilled, at least 100% move. This is the day when we said, "Okay, we have textbook characteristics into the green red." That later went to once. Here is the day. What did we have also on that day? 
[0:44] Do you see this? Highest volume over 1 year. All right? All right? All right? Do we have a bonus factor? We have it. What else do we have that was priced at $1,000 back then, okay? We had a stock split, but still a $100 or $1,000 back then. Is that Is that Is that a massive whole number compared to what the stock was doing? Is that a big milestone? Yes. Yes. Yes. So, you have all the characteristics being fulfilled on that specific day with all the bonus factors. Everything is extreme. Okay? Everything got fulfilled on that day. And that's what happened. Okay? Okay? Okay? Uh Uh Uh and something important here to mention is is is I tend to look at all that stuff on arithmetic charts, okay? 
[0:45] Because if you go on log or logarithmic, you can't see the the the acceleration of the structure easily. easily. easily. Okay? Okay? Okay? Uh so, for the parabolic setups at least, it's easier to spot them on an arithmetic chart, okay? Just to see the slope. slope. slope. Just to, you know, to see the structure. The change of character. Uh Uh Uh Now, Now, Now, let's uh let's uh let's uh you know, let's look at, you know, another two examples before we get into the the the setup so, and you know, and the nuances. Look at the, you know, I was Look at Donald Trump Media here. Based on the capitalization of that stock, stock, stock, what's the minimum threshold uh uh uh we have uh Ross uh chart setup is arithmetic for the parabolic shorts, as I said, to to see the structure, right? So, So, So, um um um what's the minimum threshold we have? That's a company with um um um you know, a small market cap, right? So, 
[0:46] what's the minimum threshold we require? I monitor it from the last pivot usually, as I said, the 20 moving average as a proxy. Okay? So, if we go up, it's around this zone zone zone that I wait to get interested. Okay? Did we surpass it here? Is the first filter okay? Yes. Yes. Yes. What else do we have? Are the these day here and this day here kind of kind of kind of different from what it is here? Especially this day with a gap. Yes. Yes. Yes. Do we have the a mas- massive volume? That's a big bonus factor. Are we approaching a psychological number which is 50 as well? well? well? So, what do I say here? You know what? If I had another day, it would be optimal. 
[0:47] Uh but, it can go the next day. If I had a gap up, even better. Well, Well, Well, you would nail it again. Simple stuff. Okay? Okay? Okay? Um Um Um And what was that category? A random burst, right? A random burst. It wasn't, you know, a momentum leader. Let's look at um at Palantir when it IPO'd. Just to understand the the filters. Do you prefer one of the categories versus another, or you can have treat them the same? same? same? Uh I kind of treat them the them same. Uh Richard, it's just the frequency. I mean, the mean, the mean, the the random bursts and the let's say let's say let's say uh the thematic bursts are way more frequent than any other stuff. But, uh uh uh uh if I had to pick one, for sure it Who be the momentum leaders? Um, uh uh uh uh I would pick the rare phenomena, 
[0:48] let's say, okay? Because you can have some rare phenomena on the momentum leaders. And usually these prices are really lucrative and you have a lot of liquidity. It's easy to short to find shares Mhm. To short. So, it's really lucrative, okay? Uh Uh but, you know, silver, for example, was a leader a momentum leader move that was really lucrative to capture. But, also car, for example, that happened Avis, it was a rare phenomenon. So, that was lucrative as well. So, it's not the category, it's the rarity of it, let's say. let's say. let's say. Uh and how can I explain later? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, it's the extremeness, it's the situational awareness, it's uh based on this company profile is that something rare or, you know, have I seen it before? it before? it before? Uh what are the dynamics and forces in play? play? play? Okay? Okay? Okay? Um Um Um So, to get back to, you know, to Palantir, you see this acceleration. Tell me Tell me Tell me for this, you know, when you see the 
[0:49] structure, let's say, to move. Is that enough for the textbook structure? This day here. You see, You see, You see, you know, a big day that has some textbook characteristics along with green red. Okay? You have a $30, which is kind of a whole number, not the perfect one. You have a lot a big volume, not the highest, because, you know, the highest was the day it actually IPO'd, so it makes sense. sense. sense. So, you have high high really high volume, volume, volume, uh close to a, you know, uh a whole number. If it was the 50, it would be better, for sure, right? So, you know, you would capture this as well. well. well. Okay? Okay? Okay? Now, um Now, um Now, um let's move to the, you know, to the next part, which is uh it's important, which is the the natural natural natural behavior behavior behavior of intraday price Sorry, intraday price 
[0:50] action action action on the true exhaustion day. Okay? Okay? Okay? So, So, So, um Why is that important? Okay? Because it it it uh you need to know what to expect when intra- intraday when this phenomenon happens. When if you capture the exhaustion day or if you are within the exhaustion day, how does uh that day usually uh rolls out? Okay? Okay? Okay? And you might have heard of an indicator that we use, which is VWAP. Okay? Okay? Okay? Um and I use it a lot, especially on these phenomenon parabolic moves. Okay? So, So, So, VWAP VWAP VWAP in in uh occasions that we have really active participation, is an amazing guide to measure strength or weakness. Okay? So, what happens usually, 
[0:51] you know, in uh in the exhaustion days is that. is that. is that. Okay? Okay? Okay? What you will see not not this. This is what happens usually. Okay? So, the stock either moves up when the day starts, okay? And then loses strength, loses VWAP, goes below VWAP, shows weakness, and it can have one or two touches with VWAP without going without showing [clears throat] big strength after that, and then stay below VWAP through the entirety of the day. Okay? Okay? Okay? Uh or it can, you know, start uh you know, we uh um it can start the day, you know, consolidating along with VWAP, and then lose VWAP, and you will see a similar action. It's not mandatory that it can have a reclaim. Okay? Usually, what I want to say is on the true exhaustion day, you will see the stock being evidently below VWAP. 
[0:52] Okay? Uh Okay? Uh Okay? Uh with not many attempts or strength above it. it. it. Okay? And something important here, because I saw a question. Uh Uh Uh I use VWAP intraday, not from pre-market. Okay? The intraday VWAP. I have pre-market data closed. Okay? Okay? Okay? Now, in contrast, when you see something like this, let's say you attempted the short here, all right? We'll discuss the setup, but let's assume you take took a short here. And then, you know, you take a partial, and and the stock moves up again, shows strength above VWAP, chops around. Like, if you see this behavior, okay? Chances are you are not in the true true exhaustion day. If you see perplexing signs, okay? The stock losing VWAP, then gaining strength, jumping around, chances are it's not the true exhaustion day. day. day. It can happen later, of course, but out of hundreds examples 
[0:53] that you will see, this is the usual action. action. action. Okay? And why do I mention this? To keep that in mind, because even if you are, you know, even if you nailed this, let's say. Even if you nailed this that this will be the day, or this, whatever. Okay? Okay? Okay? You can If the day doesn't materialize exactly how you want it to be, again, again, again, there are always probabilities. It's easy here to get frustrated and being chopped around, okay? And having four, five attempts, then revenge trade, and do, you know, a lot of uh harm to your account. Okay? Never forget, we can never put the market in a box. I don't want anyone to say, "Oh, I'm certain that this will happen." Even if we have 80% win rate on that setup, okay? I never tell it to myself. I say, "Oh, the probabilities are highly elevated. I have my time window. window. window. I will give it a few shots. That's it." Okay? Don't get into that certain mentality, okay? Certainty mentality. 
[0:54] Um Um Um Okay. So, let's look at some intraday tactics, okay? That are based on what happens 95% of the time. So, So, So, the first and I have the 1-minute, you can you don't have the 5-minute, whatever you prefer, okay? Usually I I I go back to the 1-minute for that setup. setup. setup. Uh because it's an intraday move or the 1-minute myself. You can use the five. five. five. Um so, the first tactic I use, okay? And I usually do it with half the risk risk risk uh to test the water is shorting the first first first signs of weakness. So, you might have a move up when the day starts and then the stock might, you know, perform some lower highs, lower lows, or, you know, uh a consolidation here. So, what I aim for is to short the first sign of weakness. 
[0:55] weakness. weakness. My stop will be the break of that my entry, let's say. Will be the break of that structure and my stop will be at the high of the day. day. day. Okay? Okay? Okay? Um Um Um So, that's the first entry tactic, okay? And I do it with half the size here. Now, these are the recommended ones I have. I have. I have. Okay? Okay? Okay? So, the second tactic is shorting the actual loss of VWAP when it happens. So, either you can have a stock that the day starts and consolidates, trades along VWAP, and then it forms a structure, and then you can short that structure. structure. structure. I forgot to mention something here. Even if you don't want to you know, monitor the 1-minute chart, what can you short? The first 5-minute red red candle that appears, you can go short at the low of that candle, and put your stop at the high of the day if you use the 5-minute, all right? Now, on the second tactic, either you know, the day starts, 
[0:56] the stock consolidates around VWAP, and then it loses that loses VWAP. So, you can have your entry here and stop at the high of the day. Or if it has already moved up, you know, this is the first sign of weakness, so essentially this entry here is the first tactic. And then you can have the loss of VWAP. Okay? So, you can enter here with a stop above the structure as it breaks. Okay? This is the recommended tactic for you know, if I had to pick one. All right? And the one that has the you know, the better chance of materializing. I tend to use this as well because I want to have a a better average price if I want to add on something like this later on. Okay? Um and the third tactic I have is this, which is shorting the first reclaim of VWAP. of VWAP. of VWAP. Okay? And I use it as a a technique to add more shares as well if I'm already short. Let's say I was short here, and I was 
[0:57] short here, this is a tactic I use to add more shares. Okay? If I miss this, and the stock performed this, maybe I would try, would try, would try, you know, again this tactic. Sometimes it's even more uh sorry for that, it's even more lucrative than the first two because the stock tends to lose a lot of power after that touch, and it exhausts, you know, the rest of the day. the day. the day. So, these are the three tactics combined. combined. combined. Okay? This is the first signs of weakness. The loss of V up and the reclaim to V up. up. up. All right, everyone. Now, Now, Now, uh I will give you some rules as well, okay? Now, because you asked for them. The rules I have are I give myself maximum of two attempts on the day that I believe the exhaustion will happen. My max is three on something that's 
[0:58] extremely rare. So, that means if I try this and I get stopped, most of the times I will all I will have only one only one only one attempt this day. Okay? If I get stopped out again and the phenomenon is not rare, I just delete it delete it from my focus list, move on. Okay? So, I give myself two attempts to nail it. That's why I'm patient as well. Okay? You don't want to getting stopped out five or six times even if the probability is irrelevant. Second rule, I care less about position sizing, okay? Of course, you know that I'm a swing trader, right? This is more like a a day trade or a short-term swing trade. So, So, So, of course, I'm I'm not going to have a you know, a 100% exposure in a name, but I'm okay to have a 40-50% position because I will sell probably a lot of it lot of it lot of it during the first day if it materializes, right? 
[0:59] right? right? Um Um Um So, I don't care so much about position sizing. I I usually risk around 0.4% of my account. Okay? Sometimes even a bit more. It's a strategy that I have in contrast with everything else that I do, really big win rate and accuracy. So, I could even stretch it to 1% or even more, but I keep it on 0.4% on uh you know, on the normal occasions and I tend to increase it more on something that is uh that is uh that is uh you know, rare, okay? Or if I have a lot of conviction. Okay? Okay? Okay? Uh but it depends on your foundation, right? It dep- This stuff depends on your foundation. Some of you might feel comfortable with personal foundation, I found the balance between 0.4 to 0.5, slightly more up if something is rare or I have a lot of conviction, 
[1:00] okay? okay? okay? Um Um Um Now, the first partials I sell I sell I sell at uh let's say let's say you entered here, right? And your stop is here. So, that's one risk unit as a distance. When you have at least two or three three hours, 2.5 to three hours, I tend to sell a small partial and move my stop to break even, okay? And I sell the rest either at the uh you know, near the end of the day if the expectancy of the move, and I will explain later, is reached. Um or if the expectancy hasn't reached yet, I will sell a partial near the end of the day and I I might hold something for the next day, okay? okay? okay? Uh Uh Uh if I don't have big size from that short, short, short, okay? And the stock reclaims to VWAP, I tend to add more size here, but I do it with a free roll up. That means that my new stop, which would 
[1:01] be this, be this, be this, I want my new average price synthetically, let's say you entered here. This is your average price, right? If I add here, I want to add as many shares as needed, so my new synthetic average price is exactly where my new stop will be. So, even if it stops me out, I don't lose anything, but if it works out, I have way more size. Okay? Okay? Okay? Um Um Um Now, you keep you keep hearing a phrase that I say, which is expectancy. Okay? So, what is it? Okay? What is expectancy? It's a mental framework that I have that guides me guides me guides me uh uh uh into how much I should expect from a move when it actually exhausts. On the first day or the second grade day, right? 20% down, 30% down, 40% down. down. down. Okay? Okay? Okay? Um 
[1:02] Um Um Now, there Listen, everyone. You can play around a lot with this stuff. I know there are a lot of people that, you know, add on every pop here, shares. Um you know, you can have different entry strategies. Myself, I try to keep it simple, all right? It's Think about I think about this setup as a complimentary setup in my framework. It's lucrative. I can increase my account 5, 6% or even more in a day. Okay? Okay? Okay? But, I don't want to overdo it. Okay? Because still, building a 40% position position position from your initial attempt is fine, okay? If it drops if the stock drops 30, 40%, it's fine. it's fine. it's fine. Okay? And you you should never forget about the risks of overly doing it, okay? There are some occasions where some stocks are thin. Okay? They have really small market caps, whatever, and they can get they can get halted. Okay? So, you need to understand how much you pressure something. Okay? I I I I haven't been involved in a a crazy halt myself. But, everything is 
[1:03] possible in the market, right? So, imagine, you know, being extremely, you know, heavy uh with bad with a bad average price because you keep adding and adding, and then the stock halts and explodes. Okay? Okay? Okay? Uh So, so pay attention, okay? You don't need to overdo it to to make a lot of money out of it. Okay? Keep it simple. You have some entry attempts. You you know where to add. Don't try to pressure it at all. it at all. it at all. Now, uh Yeah, depending on the risk per trade on the account, I personally, as I said, on normal occasions, I have it 0.4 to 0.5%. Okay? Okay? Okay? And you have to see the contrast, right? On on when I'm going long, when I do catalyst gaps, or when I do classic breakouts, when I go long for something, right? right? right? On an opportunity, my risk is around 0.2 to 0.3%, right? It's only on this setup that I have high win rate because on the others I don't. 
[1:04] Okay? Because I wait for the outliers. On only this this setup I have an increased we you know, risk per trade. My max is 1%, but that happens really rarely. It can happen once every year, once every 2 years, right? right? right? Um you know, because I don't want to lose When I was younger, I was fine with it. Uh Uh Uh All right? So, um um um so to explain what expectancy is, okay? Because expectancy is depends on the rarity and the extremeness of the move, as I said. Okay? Okay? Okay? So, let's let's you know, understand this, all right? Um Um Um on the category of momentum leaders, okay? okay? okay? If I have What's the normal occasion? To have, for example, let's say we have a stock that moves up Let's go here. Actually. 
[1:05] When did I tell you that SMCI fulfill the first criteria? Around this zone, all right? So, imagine imagine that it wasn't like that. It had another big day up. That's a normal occasion, right? Because we just passed the minimal threshold, we have the structure, but we don't have an extreme move. Okay? So, on on the normal occasion, so on the category of the momentum leaders, my expectancy is around 15 to 20% drop on the exhaustion day. Keep that in mind on the category that is the normal occasion occasion occasion on the momentum leaders. Okay? Okay? Okay? My expectancy is around 15 to 20%. Okay? Relative to the capitalization of what's the minimum threshold, right? Now, Now, Now, the more characteristics of extremeness that we have, or the more rare the phenomenon that we see, the more uh uh uh I go to the higher end 
[1:06] of that expectancy or even more. So, on SMCI, SMCI, SMCI, all right? all right? all right? Did we have just the minimum threshold or more extreme move? Did we Did we just go from passing the minimum threshold or we had an extreme a bigger move? We had a bigger move, right? Okay. Okay. Okay. What else would we had the conviction bonuses, right? Now, Now, Now, uh was that a rare phenomenon? Not so much. Okay? So, when I say 15 to 20%, okay, we have a more extreme move here. So, I you know, my expectancy is around envision the exhaustion day to materialize, right? exhaustion day. This moved I think it was around This was 26%. So, why do I have the expectancy? Because if I'm already in on that stock, 
[1:07] okay? When it reaches that zone, I can take most, you know, uh a bigger chunk of partials or maybe I don't need to waste the next day, for example. I don't say it can it can't go, you know, more. This is a simple mental guide, all right? right? right? And why why is it useful? Because think of that, all right? Imagine when I have an expectancy of 20 to 25% on SMCI, imagine that if that day opened here with a gap down. Should I still experiment to short on it? Intraday? No, because it has absorbed most of the expectancy expectancy expectancy pre-market, right? So, having an expectancy helps to understand do I have still room? Uh Uh Uh how much can I expect? When I should take, take, take, you know, a bigger partial? Should I wait for more days? Okay? Okay? Okay? Uh uh let's give you an example about silver silver silver to understand the rarity as well. 
[1:08] We had this move on silver, all right? On an asset that is so, you know, so liquid. What's the minimum threshold I would expect? Even if it's a commodity. The minimum would be around 50%, right? From the last pivot, as I said. Okay? Okay? Okay? So, So, So, it will fills the criteria here. here. here. Do we also have the textbook characteristics here? here? here? One day of big volume and one one one day we don't have a second, we have just one day. So, I'm not saying is there a possibility next day to exhaust? It can. If I had one more day, it would even be better, okay? But we are not extreme yet. Now, this materialized If we Yes, you're right, Toby. If we had one more, it would be amazing, right? 
[1:09] Way more. But it materialized pre-market, right? So, I couldn't do anything about it. I'm not trading the future like I couldn't do anything about it. So, when this happens the setup resets for me. Now it's reset. Okay, let's move. Okay? Let's move. Tell me what's the next day you know, stuff start to show big better. This is a gap. Remember the gaps are priced. If we had one more big day, would it be nice? If we had one more big day, would it be nice for a short if it opened with a big gap up? And this is a hundred Look at this number here. A hundred dollars. That's an amazing let's say Uh of course, we're looking at the ETF, right? You would look at the you know, at the asset itself as well. But, look at this. To to explain rarity. For that move to happen on silver. 
[1:10] Is it something that happens all the time? time? time? Or something rare? What's the last time we've seen this? Anyone knows? What's the last time? Yeah, you get you are right. You are right. in 2011, right? Like let me open um TradingView. Um So, this is the move we we had, all right? right? right? This is the move we had. Okay? Okay? Okay? What was the last time we had a similar move? Look at all this history. I need to go back to 2011 to see something similar. similar. similar. Do you see that? All right? So, it's rare. Okay? It's rare. And that's when on this 
[1:11] phenomenon that are rare, okay? I tend to be more focused and I have a higher expectancy, because I know that everything, the reflexivity, the narrative reflexivity, the mechanics, the forces are really amplified. Okay? Now, something that I say here, pay attention to that. It's important. I say monitor rarity, extremeness, and situational awareness. Okay? And that was useful for for the silver short. Okay? I showed you the last time this happened in 2011. Let's go back. Do you see the structure here? Kind of. Okay? Look at this. Did you see that it played around for, you know, when here it seemed optimal, it played around for 1 2 3 days and then actually went? Do you see that? 
[1:12] That it seemed quite good here, but then played around for 1 2 3 days and then went to exhaust itself? Well, Well, Well, that's exactly what I was looking [clears throat] at to not get trapped, because I'll tell you you you what happened. I tried to short this day. Okay? Made some, but you know, because I was seeing the history, I said, "Okay, maybe it will play around, you know, and then go." Now, look how everything connects and why you should have some situational awareness. Because when the silver the silver the silver was, you know, having this day, okay? Which was big volume, so you can say, "Oh, next day it will actually drop a lot, maybe as well, or this day." Okay? Look at gold. Do you see the textbook characteristics on the structure of gold this day? 
[1:13] Yes or no? On GLD on gold trust at least. Right? So, these two were correlated. That's when when I saw, you know, gold having this ex- expression here, and silver was here, that's when I say, all right, now and and since I had the history of silver that it played around because commodities tend to make it a bit hard, this is when I said, all right, right, right, now this is, you know, um um um maybe the next days, the next two days are, you know, really important. Okay? And we have the phenomenon materializing. Okay? It was harder than, you know, the uh you know, the the classic stocks because they're commodities, but still you need to have some situational awareness. Look at the history. Has the asset I'm looking at performed parabolic moves in the past? How did they materialize? Okay, did it play around? Was it smooth? Do I have other assets that are correlated with my asset? Is that stock 
[1:14] in a theme? Are there similar stocks that move the same? Okay, you need to, you know, understand things from different lenses. Okay? Um Um Um And also, you never nail everything perfectly. perfectly. perfectly. What What What What asset would you pick to short this move? move? move? Okay? Let's say you have seen gold, as I said, being really nice here, so you can say, oh, the next two days might be important important important for this to exhaust itself. What asset was the best one to actually short? short? short? Was it SLV? Or something else? That's why That's why That's why that's why that's why that's why you you never nail everything perfectly. Yeah, AGQ Yeah, AGQ Yeah, AGQ would be way more lucrative, right? Because it's a leveraged ETF, so that dropped Okay? Compared to SLV that dropped 
[1:15] around around around And with options, of course, even better, right? If you're experienced with them. with them. with them. Uh but yeah, to get back to the how rare something is, that was a rare phenomenon, all right? So, my expectancy was way more enlarged. Did I expect for it to go actually in 2 days to, you know, to drop uh around 40%? No, my expectancy, to be honest, it was around 30%, right? But still, still, still, you know, you could enter here and then retry on the next day to add more. And we can look at this example as well if you want. you want. you want. Okay? Okay? Okay? Uh I mean, intraday. So, everything cool with what I mean by something rare? You monitor the extremeness and how rare this phenomenon is. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, let's go over some examples, okay? Let's go to the intraday. Yeah, we can go we can start with car. Okay, let's start with car. 
[1:16] Look at the big picture and then go into the intraday. So, So, So, let's start it from the ground up. What's the minimum threshold for this market cap that car was belonging to around the start of this move here? What's the minimum threshold The first filter is the percentage increase. So, I want at least 200%. Okay? Because it's in the lowest category. What's 200% above here? Not here, not here. Not here. Not here. Not here. Around here. &gt;&gt; Here. Okay? Okay? Okay? So, here is the day that we actually hit the threshold. Okay? Okay? Okay? And what's the Um let's say 
[1:17] What's the price structure here? It's kind of the ants, right? You have one day actually, but you know, you see green days one after the other, correct? Now, when we hit that do we see any difference in structure? No, I I haven't seen yet let's say let's say let's say textbook characteristics into that. So, I need one big day or preferably two. two. two. Okay? So, I calculate the percentage increase from the last big pivot. Usually, you can use the 20 moving average as a proxy around here. Okay? So, this is around the zone to put it more effectively where the threshold is. Okay? Now, you have this day. One really big day. Is that okay to start saying, "Mhm, maybe we can have some exhaustion?" It is. To be honest, okay? We can. And we actually, you know, if we sorry, if we had two days, would it be better? 
[1:18] Because I said we need more Yes. So, on that day, and since you we hit the $400 mark, mark, mark, okay? okay? okay? We have two big days. We hit a whole number, which is the $400, but it's easy for that to hit that. Um the volume is elevated, but do not extreme. So, is there a chance for it to exhaust next day? There is a chance, okay? And I mentioned on the Twitter that, you know, next day it could have an exhaustion. We actually had an exhaustion, right? Here. Here. Here. All right? All right? All right? Now, it's different trying to short here and here and here and here. It's different saying, "Oh, I have everything fulfilled. Maybe next day, you know, there is a potential exhaustion. Even if you trade it because I did here, you would make some money. It didn't materialize fully. When it doesn't materialize fully, what do I say? All right. All right. All right. It resets. 
[1:19] It resets. It resets. So, tell me the next time the next time we we are already above the threshold, right? So, tell me the next time you see extreme behavior. I go day by day. Tell me a candle that looks different. Now, what else do we have here? We have extreme volume. Is that nice? It's a bonus factor. All right? So, if next day, it can happen, right? If we had a gap up, even better, right? Well, you captured it. Do you see the difference of hitting it here and here and here and here compared to maybe one attempt here, maybe one attempt here? Of course, you get out. When you Of course, you get out. You don't wait for it. it. it. Especially when it, you know, pulled back that much. As I said, then actual exhaustion day needs to have a behavior like this, right? Look at this. It didn't have that behavior, so the chances are 
[1:20] less. So, you get out, of course, right? You don't hold it for for for a swing. Now, Now, Now, in terms of rarity, let's say, or in terms of extremeness of the move. the move. the move. Is that a move extreme or normal? What would you say? It's more to the extreme side. The dynamics that were blended in car, like is that something extremely normal to see or some something more rare? Especially with the dynamics in play, right? With the ownership structure and all that stuff. It was rarer, so my expectancy was even larger because when you have something something something that has materially no reason to be up that much, right? Like materially no reason instead of the the dynamics or forces in play, you can have slide and it's rare and it's extreme, you can have more expectancy. Now, did I anticipate for that to hit the the the the 50-day in 2 days? No, my expectancy was around 50% plus something, right? 
[1:21] So, around this. But, I still, you know, left. I did with options myself. I couldn't find shares, unfortunately, I told you. told you. told you. Uh but, still it was one of the most amazing opportunities. Okay? Okay? Okay? Um Um Um And something to not forget because before we dive into the intraday, okay? Uh yeah, George, me as well. That's why I had to do it with options. Um I couldn't find shares. So, don't forget that this phenomenon can can happen in the reverse, right? It's knowing that the that extended structure helps you. Where it helps you, look at this. Look at the opposite side. Tell me when the structure seem extended seems extended on S&amp;P itself. Highest volume ever, close to a whole number from what it was in the past an important number, 2 days of massive 
[1:22] of massive of massive expression. Can we have a pullback soon? There are we're never we're never sure. All we know is the chances of the dynamics being materialized are amplified for a possible bounce. Well, you got it. Okay? Even here, all right? It wasn't that massive, but still, you know, it was evident. Look at B Y N D. And you can use the Here I can use the log to see it more evidently yourself since it's the downside. downside. downside. One, two, three big days. Okay? And it's a stock that is a meme stock. Everyone knows, right? Well, can it have a bounce? It can. Okay? Okay? Okay? Now you move from this 
[1:23] up. What's the minimum threshold for the opposite side? If you remember. No, no. That's That's a really tiny stock, right? At At least 200%. And you have one, two you know, one, two, at least two big days. Okay? Is that the an expression of the textbook when you when the threshold is already passed? Yes. So, can it materialize as a short next day? Well, it can. So, you see the vice versa of some stuff? Both on the parabolic long and the parabolic short. Now, that that was a big miss might be. I didn't I didn't um let's say capture all the things that I wanted from from this. Um I I I don't suggest to you to do the parabolic long so much because you know, these are distressed companies so you can, you know, have some trouble or some halts. Whatever, but I wanted to show you the 
[1:24] structure. structure. structure. Uh let's get into the day to finish up with some examples to actually see the intraday intraday intraday the the intraday. We can't do a ton of them, but we can do maybe um SMCI or car. Um let's start with car. Um and then maybe if we could do um SLV as well cuz that's a that's a situation where we have got a kind of a gap down instead of a gap up reversal if that makes sense. Yeah. But let's let's start with CAR I think. think. think. Let let I want to show you also MSR or MSR is good. Yeah. Uh we won't go into a day because due to time but I want you to see the structure, okay? of it. of it. of it. What's the minimum for this category? We want at least 50%, right? So from the last pivot, what's the last pivot here? This. All right? What's at least 50%? Here we pass the threshold. I want you to tell me when something looks different. different. different. Okay? 
[1:25] What else do we have here? There seems as there. So So So we have the biggest volume ever. Bonus factor we also had a whole number. Everything is fulfilled. Both on structure, both on the bonus factors. factors. factors. Would you be crazy to call that Oh, next day we there is you know you know you know an an an an occasion that this exhaust? No. Okay? You would capture it. It's the same like you can go back and study as many examples as you want, okay? It's really simple. Um these two criteria will will get you, you know, closer to the the the the stage where the opportunities are elevated, okay? So let's go intraday now. Let's go to CAR first. Assuming you found shares to short, all right? 
[1:26] right? right? Oh, and someone mentioned the options before. before. before. This is where the expectancy is useful, right? Because if you want to buy out of the money the money the money options you need to know where the expectancy is, right? So if if I have for something a 40% expectancy, I can buy some out of the money options in 20%, right? To find them more cheap. So, I can still have room for the premium, right? That's why it's important to have an expectancy instead of shorting randomly. Now, CAR manifested in 22 of April. So, let's go there. Uh April 22. 2. Let's put CAR. Uh this is not a plug. I'm using uh TradingView. You can use it on TradingView as well to to see that. So, I just happen to use that myself. Uh I'm not affiliated, I mean, but 
[1:27] uh uh uh All right? So, let's have let's have let's have the day start. Okay? This is the We're in 1-minute time frame. Or deep view for sure. Uh Uh Uh Richard, do you have historical charts? I don't remember. We have historical charts. We're about to launch more replay features, and we're going to have a whole module similar to this. So, it's coming. It's coming for sure. Nice. Oops. Sorry, I need to put more slower the time just to actually see it. So, the day starts, right? We're up here. It moves for a few minutes, then it meets VWAP. What can you do? You can look for a loss of VWAP short. This is the If we go back to the slides, this is what I'm looking for. Okay? 
[1:28] Here, more specifically. Okay? I want to short the loss of VWAP if it happens. All right? So, let's get back to the panel. Okay? Now, if here it moves around, I want to short the loss of VWAP. Let's see. Hm. So, if it breaks that structure, I can short here and put my stop either at the high of day, or if you if you want to have more tight stops because that's a wide stop, you can put it above the structure. So, how where can you short? Exactly here. here. here. If it happens, right? Or here. If it breaks that zone, you short here, you put your stop around this zone. this zone. this zone. Okay? You are in now. Of course, we can go and calculate all the shares, but you know, you can do the calculations. If I wanted to short here and this would be my stop, how much size could I have taken? And all that stuff, all right? 
[1:29] Uh I will repeat, I I I took it with options myself. I couldn't find shares. It happens sometimes that you can't find shares. Okay? But when I actually uh you know, bought the puts, it happened when the actually I would uh have shorted short go short on the equities, all right? Now, here it touches VWAP. So, you can add more shares here if you want. want. want. Okay? What's the expectancy of this? Well, 50% this is a crazy extreme move where you have a lot of a lot room. So, from $800 if you go 50% down, you have expectancy up until this zone for at least. Okay? To to sell the you know, a bigger parcel. So, let's move it at I do not I don't think it did anything, you know? It just showed Do you see the natural expression? Weakness all day on the three exhaustion day. Weakness all day. All day weakness. Okay? 
[1:30] Right? Yes, and if you missed that, you could have entered as someone said, on that retest, okay, you can short here or short this structure here again and put your stop loss at the above the structure here. Okay? Okay? Okay? Again, there are many ways to play around with this. Some of you mentioned you know options and all that stuff. No matter your experience, your knowledge, you can combine a lot of stuff. The The important thing is to know where the probabilities are elevated, how you play with them. It's on you, okay? And your experience. And also, you know, the second day, if we move one day, it just continued. Harsh, good to see you here as well. I just saw your name. Right? So, if you shorted here, right, you could have added more this day, move your stop, you know, around the 10 moving average and continue to, you know, to take 
[1:31] this move as well. But here it has already reached the expectancy, so, you know, myself, I didn't wait all this time. I was out more around here myself. Right? Right? Right? So, So, So, that's about it on car. Easy peasy. Full exhaustion for 2 days. Okay? I see a lot of you mentioning options, all right. I don't want to to stress about it because I'm not so much experience with them as I am with other parts, you know, with other stuff, so I don't want to say something when I don't have an extreme experience with them. I I didn't use them as vehicles so much through my 10-year career, okay? I use them in certain occasions, so some of you might have way better experience experience experience around options. There's some There's some questions coming in about how you estimate the expectancy. Could you touch on that again? 
[1:32] Yeah, so so to repeat, maybe I forgot to repeat that Uh to mention that. On On On category on these categories, let me go back in slides. I gave you the categories of stocks, right? Here. On the momentum leaders, all right? Uh the they usually drop around 15 to more extreme or more rare, then my expectancy is around 20 to 30%. If it's extreme and more rare, okay? On these categories like IPOs or extreme energy burst, my expectancy is around 30 to 40%. to 40%. to 40%. On default. The more extreme it is, the more rare it is, it can get to 50% or more. Okay? Just to put it simple. That's the difference of the categories. This is much this has more more power uh uh uh on the downside than this. Okay? But again, it depends on the rarity and the extremeness. 
[1:33] Um Um Um Okay, so that was one example. Uh what what should we do next? Silver, maybe? Yeah, sounds good. All right. Um Okay. So sorry, uh before forget to this one, one, one, for for the car options trade, um how far out was your expiration? Um how did you kind of structure the the whole option? Yeah, that's why I say expectancy. Like guys, I'm not I don't want to give advice on that because I'm not super experienced. There are way more you can do different structures instead of buying, you know, just puts, you can do other structures that are way better, okay? But since my expectancy was around, around, around, you know, this zone, I think I bought around the around the around the uh out of the money put. 
[1:34] Uh Uh Uh and that's was it for me. So, I want to pick a zone that's within the expectancy but but has a lot more room to appreciate. Let's put it simply, all right? I wouldn't buy something at 350, for example. Okay? Because even if it materialized and it was very good because it would it would be would be would be you know, priced really you know, really well. I mean, here, uh the chances of that materializing is not so high, all right? So, always I want to put it within my expectancy. That's that's about it. Um Um Um So, So, So, um um um Richard, you can tell me what another example you want to see. Silver, Richard, yeah. Yeah, let's do SLV. Um Um Um Hm, something something that's importable important for the for the expectancy. If it doesn't materialize on, you know, one day, maybe it can materialize on the second, right? So, for example, here, 
[1:35] uh uh uh it did materialize on the first day, the expectancy. Well, it materialized on the second, right? So, uh uh uh January. And I said, I didn't have so much conviction on silver alone. Pay attention to that. I didn't have so much conviction on that alone. It was gold that gave me the conviction that maybe this is the day because they were correlated that actually it can happen, right? right? right? I didn't have so much conviction on silver alone. Uh I know a lot of guys were trying to short here and here and here and they were building massive positions. Of course, it happened, but this is not for everyone, everyone, everyone, okay, to carry that much of a risk. That's why I want to spot the right days myself. myself. myself. Um Um Um So, okay, 29th. 
[1:36] Yeah. So, So, So, if you see this, let's say you missed that, all right? If you weren't fast enough. Can you short this structure here? This is the actual loss of VWAP, you know? know? know? If you miss the first move. Okay? Let's say you have shorted here. All right? All right? All right? Your average is around here. Okay? Does this have uh an abnormal look or kind of it's kind of okay 
[1:37] okay okay given this given this given this uh this move here? It has big exhaustion, right? It's not that it moved here and went above VWAP, hold strength, hold the strength, and you know, did all bunch of crazy stuff. It showed weakness, then started getting strength a bit later, right? So, if you had an average around here, since the expectancy is not reached, you can hold some of your shares for the next day. next day. next day. Okay? That's the difference between another example that I showed you that on another example, you might have been stopped out. Here, if you started from here, here, here, you're not stopped out. If you tried the VWAP just the VWAP reclaim here, probably you are stopped out. You have to be early on this. Okay? Okay? Okay? So, if you have an average of around this price actually let's let's do it Let's do it with some maths maybe. Richard, you can help me if you can. All right? right? right? With the math? You give me you permit to do this? Yeah, if if you can. 
[1:38] &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Let's let's say you short at at 108 on SLV, right? And 50 and your stop is around around around Okay? Okay? Okay? So, So, So, let's say you have a $1 dollar account and you risk 0.5%. Okay? That's 5K. Now, 5K with $1 stop, you need to short five five five thousand shares, correct? Now, 5,000 shares with an average price of 108 how what's the position size? Richard, that's what I want. multiplied by 5,000. I mean, I can give an estimate but the the exact Uh 542K. Okay. Okay. Okay. So, 50% of your account given that you short here with a stop around here 
[1:39] is into SLV. Okay? Is that a big position? It is. All right? All right? All right? Now, Now, Now, up until this point you can take a partial This is This is your risk zone. This is your risk zone. So, this is a three hour move. You can take a partial All right? You can take a partial after this move move your stop to break even. And then you wait. All right? Then you wait. You can add here but pay attention if you like you can add big here. If you add That's what I said you can do a lot of stuff but don't pressure it at all. Don't don't try to pressure it so much because if you added a bunch here Okay? And you move your synthetic average down, but you also have I don't know a 200% position size. Well, you get stopped out. Okay? That's why I said keep it simple. Don't try to overly pressure all everything. Now, Now, Now, let's go to the second day. Let's assume we sell Let's assume we 
[1:40] sell just to not have an an overnight risk. Uh we have sold uh half of half of all the position. Okay? Because we're still good from where our average is. So, we have to Let's jump on the next day. Okay? Okay? Okay? Next day, Next day, Next day, of course, of course, of course, your shares are, you know, yet appreciated a lot. Where can you enter on the second day? You will use the exact same things if you want to enter on the second day. Even add. All right? Where is here? This is the loss of Vwap. So, if you had to enter, you had to do it around here. Now, how many shares can you you you add here in order not to pressure with a ton, but still have a bigger position? Okay? So, right now we're we're having actually from from our entry, let's assume we had 250k because we sold half. Okay? And we have 2.5 thousand shares. 
[1:41] Now, Richard, that's where you want to help me. Let's do that, all right? You have You have You have your your your average here. Mhm. That's where That's your initial average price. Let's say I want to enter again here. Around this zone, all right? How many shares can I add here to bring my new average price not here, because that's extreme pressure, but maybe but maybe but maybe this is half, let's say around here. This is half the distance. Look how you can do it really simply and I have explained that many times. This is the half distance between the first average price where you want to add. to add. to add. If you had 2.5k shares and you added another 2.5k shares, then your synthetic average goes in the middle zone, correct? It's easy. That's where your synthetic 
[1:42] new average price will be. Now, assuming that you have done that, okay, now you have 5k. If you added another 5k, well, your new price would be at the middle. middle. middle. So, you can add 7.5k to bring your new synthetic average price here. I want a bit less, so maybe can I add 6,000 shares? Easily. So, you can add 6,000 shares, let's say, and you can have your new average price around this zone. You can do the math, so you will see it will land around this zone without solving equations, I mean. Okay? Okay? Okay? Uh Uh Uh so, if we added, let's say, 6,000 shares on a price on a price on a price that would be a new average price would be around 94. Okay? 6 Okay? 6 Okay? 6 + 2.5 8.5k + 2.5 8.5k + 2.5 8.5k multiplied by which is 96 
[1:43] position size. Position size equals position size after odds position size after odds equals equals equals which which will be the new average price, the synthetic average price. Let me do it myself. I got eight eight through 833 K. Correct. 833. So, you are like 80 If you do that stuff with an average price around here, all right? And then the expectancy was reached. So, how much could you make actually if you had an average price of 90 six and you did you didn't get stopped out as you see, right? Of 96 up to the 
[1:44] how much do you make? All right, that's let's do it here. Assuming you had Assuming that was your average price after the ad, that was a 20 something percent drop and you had 83% exposure, can you make 15 or 20% of your account account account in two days? If you added a lot, you can. But if if you didn't make 20% or 15% because I didn't make that much myself, right? That's why I say we can't nail it perfectly every time. And And And you know, there are always people on Twitter and everyone that say, "Oh, I nailed everything perfectly." No, okay? Everyone lies. Not everyone lies. A lot of people lie, right? There's always something that you can do better because even if you nail it perfectly, as I said, there's always ATQ that would be have been better. 
[1:45] So, no matter how perfect you do things, there's always something better. So, even if you made 6% or 7% or 8%, would it be fine? On silver? On silver? On silver? It would be fine. Okay? It's two days. The same with car, the same with MSTR, the same with SMCI. That's why this setup exists. Okay? Because if you get five, six, seven opportunities in a year, in a year, in a year, Okay? And you get 3% from one, 5% in another, 8% in another. It really helps with compounding. Okay? So, that's was about it in a distilled format for you to to to uh you know, to have on this webinar. I hope uh everything was clear. Richard, you can uh you can uh you can uh ask me any questions. Yep. First of all, Boris, thank you so much. I think we we covered a lot a lot of ground today. Um beyond parabolic shorts uh as well. I think the theme aspect of it, I think is 
[1:46] key. And I think a lot of people are going to have to rewatch this a few times to kind of get everything out of it. So, uh thank you so much for for walking through everything. Um and by the way, guys, I just placed a a link in the chat if you want to give us some feedback uh on the webinar, we'd really appreciate it. I'll drop that again. Uh but let's cover a few questions here uh that uh people uh mentioned. Uh let's see here. Do do do do. What recommendation would you have for folks who want to study the setup historical examples to get the most out of that practice? Yeah. So, generally, you have to study all the best historical moves that ever happened in history, all right? Because it's unlikely that you will all only do the parabolic short setup. Probably, you will be you know, a trader that want to go long. So, in the process of studying 
[1:47] uh the best historical moves in the past, and it's not so hard to do even on the the the uh on the listed features at at least, like like like you can go and sort a year by performance. Let's take a sector. Let's take technology. Okay? Let's put 2025 and I go into technology. Okay? And I go into the stocks of of technology, you will see that you will find naturally all the best historical moves that happened, you know, every year. So, in the process of understanding these moves, you will find many examples of parabolic moves. Now, you see, the fourth stock in the technology sector in parabolic setup? Here. Here. Here. What do you think? As the expression we discussed. Is there, right? But most of the move was absorbed, you know, pre-market. So, in the process of 
[1:48] uh uh uh going back and studying all the historical best moves of the past, you will naturally find, you know, all these parabolic moves and you will study them, right? When they happen. That's what I did myself. I didn't put a specific criteria or give me all the stocks that move up uh uh uh days because there are ton of them that do it, right? So, in the process of studying the best moves of history, I found naturally all the parabolic shorts. That's how you should do it as well. And I'm sure there are communities out there that have examples for you to study ready for them for you. for you. for you. But that's what I followed myself through the process of studying everything. I kept noting, oh, this was a parabolic, so let's study it later. Does it cover you, Richard? Yep, that's helpful. Um another person had a question, is there a um market cap or dollar volume that is maybe a minimum that you'll trade or is there a sweet spot that you like to 
[1:49] focus on? Basically, do you kind of consider that for your minimum criteria to to play a parabolic short? Yeah, another nice question. No, because I care more about uh the liquidity, let's say, how active a stock is. That's why I look at the dollar volume to see, okay, how many shares are in play. Okay? If it's liquid enough, I'm interested. Uh the only thing that I'm not going to be interested if, you know, if it's uh it has a parabolic move, but not a lot of volume or volume or volume or uh you know, a lot of it's not liquid enough, right? So, I don't have a uh something a market cap that I would say only above that, but uh depending on your account size, you will also should also look about how liquid something is, all right? And the less liquid the less liquid it is, of course, the more chances of a halt, um you know, that can happen or more choppy action. So, Yeah. as a general rule, the more liquid, the better. The bigger market cap, the better. But, you have to blend the frequency 
[1:50] uh with the setup, so you can't always find all these amazing opportunities that are super super liquid. Yep. Uh can you go into your process for locating shares to short? Kind of how early do you start that process? Um and what are what are some brokers that you usually go to? go to? go to? Yeah, I mean, you know, I I use Interactive mainly myself, right? So, uh if I find shares there, I I will do them. Uh and usually it's within the previous, you know, day that when when the criteria fulfill, right? Even if it fulfills today, I say to to uh let's say next day or the day after, this is where you locate shares. And how much um um um I I use this in my in my mind, let's say, say, say, assuming that you you don't because you never know how many shares you will need, right? Correct? Uh I assume in my mind that, okay, if I found a tight stop on that stock next day, what's a tight stop usually in my mind? 
[1:51] mind? mind? Uh a 0. less than 0.3% of the ATR. Sorry, uh 30% of the ATR. So, let me show you an example. Mhm. Let's go to SMCI. As a proxy, okay? Uh let's go to when the move happened. Okay, some are liquid, right? So, you don't need to hunt for them. You understand what I mean, but uh what's the ATR here? It was around $58, correct? Because that's a split. So, assuming you had next day, because you never know that next day. Assuming you had a a tight stop to enter next day. It would be around around around $60? Come on, everyone. &gt;&gt; 12 12-ish. all right? all right? all right? So, So, So, let's say I have 6 million, right? So, 
[1:52] my risk, let's say um is whatever, you know, for that set of if if my risk unit is $10 to $15, how many shares would I need if I capture a tight entry next day? So, you tend to locate around this amount, a bit more just to be safe. Does it cover Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Uh so, you you use the ATR as a proxy of how much you will need, assuming that you will have a tight stop. That's it. Yep. Excellent. &gt;&gt; Um And then a a bunch of people had questions about um you know, the SNDK MJU, SOXL. Uh what would they need to um to fulfill to meet the requirement? Um you know, obviously, these are the momentum names right now. Uh we'll see how how their trends end, but uh what would you be looking for if you were going to potentially place a a parabolic short here? Yeah, so I'm not placing anything 
[1:53] because I haven't seen this crazy structure. I mean, this is, you know, the day that looked kind of similar, but uh uh uh it's not it's not it's not As I said, I'm I monitor the last pivot, okay? So, for for that specific stock for that specific stock, the last pivot was here, so so so you know, it's there structurally, but still the threshold is not there. So, for that I would If I saw something like Uh now we have a new pivot, right? So, if I saw a move up to now now now to 2,000, this is where I would get interested. Right? A move to 2,000 and something at least. Mhm. Okay? For that specific stock. So, I'm not saying it can bleed out, right? Because the S&amp;P terms of parabolic it's not. it's not. it's not. Right? Right? Right? Uh the same with MU. The These are high market cap, so the the the minimum threshold is 50%, right? 
[1:54] As I said. As I said. As I said. The minimum threshold is 50%. That has already covered it, right? But it It had this one day here. Okay? Okay? Okay? So, you can say, "Mhm, maybe this day is is one." But still, you know, it's not um you know, uh like you Here it's a straight move, right? So, you don't have a pivot. You can measure from here. 50% is here. Okay? Here is we say we have one day. We had enough volume. Mhm. If we had one more extreme day, it would be even better. better. better. But that wasn't extreme. Okay? Yes, there are chances. That's what I'm saying. There are chances for these to show exhaustion, and it showed exhaustion, okay? But where when you want the true exhaustion, the big exhaustion, you want everything to be supercharged. The structure above the thresholds, bonus factors, uh whole numbers and everything. So, uh if MU now again runs, this is where it is parabolic. So, try 
[1:55] to separate in your mind what is extended extended extended and can have a small pullback versus what is extremely parabolic and can have a 20 or 30 or a 40% drop in a day. Mhm. Okay? Okay? Okay? Um Um Um So, for that you know, you follow the the classic moving averages if you are long and you know, that's okay. Yep. Yep. Yep. And then there's a few questions about when you take your first partial intraday and in what situations you might take most of your position off into that first day close. So, just some additional thoughts there would be great. Yeah, so as I said I try to keep it simple. I say when we approach near the end of the day I say did we hit most of the expectancy that I was looking after? If yes, I might you know I cover most of it or all of it. If we still have room I might leave a lot of shares for the next day, right? So, I I keep it that simple. And of course it depends on the 
[1:56] asset and the rarity and the phenomenon because because because um um um when you have something like Cubit for example, okay? Which was an extreme thing back then. Okay? Now, you have the textbook format. Mhm. Okay? Let's say you are short here, but let's say [clears throat] it reversed a bit and you are here. Uh just because of the capitalization or the extremeness uh even if it it hit you know, but it hit here it hit expectancy actually, right? right? right? So, imagine it was around here. Okay? Because that move hit the expectancy. Well, you can hold less shares on Cubit versus something like silver for example because a thematic speculative name can do more crazy stuff than something else, right? So, if it hasn't reached expectancy I and it hasn't stopped me out and I have some buffer of where my entry is, I usually keep for the next day. All right? Uh how much depends on what's the occasion. Is it truly speculative? 
[1:57] Is it super liquid? What what happens? So, it's not an easy answer for that. It depends. And you will get a feel of it for it as you get more experience. Um Excellent. Uh, we'll do maybe one more question. Um Let's see here. Um Um Um Yeah, there are some questions about for the more thematic based ones. Uh, what's your method for finding those? Is it you you notice a few big moves in that theme and you kind of start looking for sister stocks that could be setting up for that. Uh, what's your general, you know, process for finding uh, potential thematic based parabolic shorts when they all break? Yeah, I mean it's easy to spot them, especially when you have a lot of names that are correlated. When QUBIT went there, there, there, you would see QBTS also getting extended. You would see I don't remember Yeah, Rigetti also was moving, you know, uh, around the zone. So, when the whole group, uh, 
[1:58] like you will depending on how much big the group is as well as well, right? When Quantum started back then, it was a small group. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm. Okay, it wasn't a a mature group like we have now AI networking, which is more mature group. So, we have different waves. Back then, it was a small niche group. So, when you have this niche, let's say the sub themes, because quantum computing was a sub theme back then. then. then. Um Um Um Uh, everything gets correlated. So, you you use one as a proxy to the another as a proxy to another. When the theme matures, matures, matures, uh, you will see the waves happening. Uh, Uh, Uh, you just want to know which which stocks belong to, you know, to this, uh, this, uh, this, uh, to these themes. &gt;&gt; Themes. All right. Yeah, it's If you have it in your routines already or you use a platform, I don't know. Uh, you will know all the, you know, all the names. But, the more I I mentioned themes mostly Richard just to for you to understand for the long side as well. Yep. Uh that is a hidden premium that is waiting there 
[1:59] for you if you monitor all the stocks that belong to themes and you know which themes are dominant. Okay? You could be on MXL way earlier before it did that move, right? Or GFS. Mhm. Right? Because it was in a dominant theme. theme. theme. Uh someone asked SOXL. Um So, let's review that. Tell me a Tell me Tell me when you see the structure. I see it myself. What's the minimum size hold for something? Uh This is the leverage one, but still where do you see the structure? Is that the two days we're looking at? Mhm. Kind of similar. So, there is a chance of an exhaustion for the next two days that that Um Um Um the next two days, okay? Uh the day after or the day, you know, the day after tomorrow. Um Should you 
[2:00] sell all your semi if no? You semiconductor exposure? No, because, you know, that's the ETF. You You You You can take a partial more effectively. That's what I'm saying, right? That's why you use it. Of course, it showed some weakness, right? Because the structure was there. It There was chance of some weakness, but still it doesn't mean that the whole move will exhaust itself. And that's what I was saying to my partners where we're doing, you know, a project together that Okay, yes, we are kind of parabolic, but what if we are in the in the start of a, you know, a bigger move? So, yes, I I will take some partials, but you know, for the ones that I'm really selective and I care about, the names that I have, um you know, I will just keep trailing the 10 and 20, right? So, I took a partial on these kind of days, but I still follow the, you know, you know, you know, uh the structure, right? It doesn't mean always that the parabolic move will end the move. the move. the move. Look at CAR. We just align with the probabilities. 
[2:01] CAR had a setup here. Okay? It didn't end the move. It materialized again here. here. here. Okay? It doesn't mean that it will end the move. That's why you don't want to do extreme amount of action. If you are long, you don't sell everything. You just can take a heavier partial than what you're used to because the probabilities are elevate. Is that clear for everyone? That's important for for me to not uh you know, you know, you know, um um um misunderstand. It's not that if you are long, you sell everything. You just have more awareness into taking, you know, better actions. Yep. Clear Richard as well. Yeah. It is. Yeah. Marius, thanks again for for walking us through this. And like like you just said, I think it's This is also helpful for the long side. If you're in a stock that's making a very strong move, it can help you decide when to maybe take a partial, maybe take a trim, and uh and protect yourself that way. So, um yeah, this is 
[2:02] &gt;&gt; one more small small detail, Please. that's uh um that's important to finish this off. Do you know when I mostly sell uh uh uh most of my shares? When we have the momentum leaders and that parabolic move is usually the the last timing of the stage two. So, on MSTR, because that's parabolic move aligns with the structure of the stage two getting extended, Yep. and this happens, I'm more aligned to sell more because I say, "Okay, there's not so much juice for me to stay involved in the long side on MSTR, which probably will enter into stage three or stage four." Or on SMCI. These are the only things that I, you know, tend to take more when it's extremely evident, though, more more aggressive sells because most of the juice for the long is already out. So, you know, it's okay. But still, not all of it because you never know. Market has randomness. Yeah. Excellent. Uh well, well, thank you again. Thank you to everybody who's 
[2:03] attended. Uh yeah, appreciate it. Great questions. Really great questions today. Uh I think uh they added a lot to to the webinar. So, thank you guys all for attending and for joining. And uh we hope we hope this is very helpful for for everybody watching. Um like like I said, all this is being recorded. I'll probably send out the the replay uh tomorrow. I'll do my best to get it out as quickly as possible. Uh but everybody uh in the chat, thank Marius uh for for his time. And uh we'll maybe see you in the next one. And uh yeah, thank you all. And uh Marius, have a great rest of your day. And everybody, have a great rest of your weekend. Cheers, everybody. &gt;&gt; Thank you, everyone. Loved your introduction. Cheers. Bye. Yep. Awesome. I dropped the link to the feedback form uh one more time down there. So, thank you guys all, and take care. Bye. 