
[0:00] If profit is an outcome of following a good process. Once you have a setup and you have a process then if you follow a process profit is just an outcome of following a process basically. So in a breakout kind of a process I have a very simple process and what I do is I have these two breakout scans which I use. So as soon as the market opens I'm just going through which stocks are having a breakout and again this is colorcoded. So you will see that this is green that means it's bullish. This is red that means it's bearish. Now in this particular case of this stock there's a catalyst which there was earnings was 3 days ago and it reacted very positively to the earnings. It did like a highest volume traded ever. 68 million shares were traded. The float is 249 million and it has a good catalyst. So this is a stock which I was watching today for possible delayed entry. There is another process which is the anticipation. So which is like a watch list I'm creating for finding setups which are likely to break out. This particular stock NVTs right and out of the gate it came out right. And if you look at on a lower time frame it just broke out right and if you bought it like and it ended up giving up all the gains and then later 
[0:01] the buying came in and it became a successful breakout. stock has not gone anywhere for almost like an and last time it had earnings had 16% reaction right and so there's a potential that it will have a reaction but the important thing is I only look for a surprise if the stock is neglected and this stock is neglected right and at least for a month it is neglected so then the move become more explosive if it is neglected once you have one process and one setup completely under your belt then start thinking look now this process only requires 1 hour what can I use my time better for what other process can I do. Ultimately, you become a successful trader when you find a process which works for you. [Music] [Music] [Music] All right, welcome back everybody. It's my honor to introduce the next speaker of the Trailine Conference, Pradep Bond, the founder of Stockby. Uh he has mentored thousands of traders over the years and is known for developing the episodic pivot and momentum burst setups. Uh Praep, thank you so much for 
[0:02] being back here. I think the topic you're talking about today uh is fantastic talking more about being processoriented, how to develop your processes and sharing a lot of the processes that you know you have for your own setups uh the eps and momentum burst. So uh first of all thank you so much for your time and it's great to have you back. &gt;&gt; Yeah, good to have you back. So uh yes I want to talk today about processes because which is one of the issues which uh new traders face and even existing traders or prep traders always have process kind of problems. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Perfect. Um yeah I think it's it's really poignant and um &gt;&gt; you know you've talked about so much in in previous videos and webinars the different processes that you have set up. So why don't you take it away and and kind of run through first why is it so important to have a process and then I know you're going to give a lot of examples too. &gt;&gt; Okay. So let's go. Let me share like the screen for this. So and then like you know we can uh look at like you know 
[0:03] basically the thing. &gt;&gt; Yep. Let's dive in. &gt;&gt; Okay. So let's look at like in a process orientation or process flow because ultimately uh the goal or the whole philosophy with which I work in terms of trading and when I even talk to developing traders is if profit is an outcome of following a good process. So if you have a very good process and a setup, uh once you have a setup and you have a process, then if you follow a process, profit is just an outcome of following a process basically. And in order to have a process, you need to have first setups. So I define setups into two categories broadly. One category of setups are like home run kind of setups or mini home runs. So in a home run or a mini home run, what you're looking for is you're looking for like a moving your account in a large increment in one trade. So say good example of that would be an EP is a home 
[0:04] run kind of a setup. I have a variation of EP EP 9 million which is a home run kind of a setup. So one trade will move your account by 20% sometimes 50% or at times even 100% plus in one trade. Right? Basically uh the other kind of a thing which I do is like really singles which is like basically something where I'm looking for moving the account. Sometimes uh that trade can move your account just half a percent on overall capital. uh and when I'm talking about capital I'm talking on that particular trade right half a percent to uh sometimes up to 5% in one trade basically right and now in order to do this successfully there is a process flow which is required and that process is what uh I will focus on today uh for doing something like this I have a process which starts most of the most important part of this process 
[0:05] happens in premarket market or after market. So as soon as the market closes is when companies start announcing earnings or companies announce earnings after the market opens. So in order to uh find stocks which have earnings as a catalyst or a sales as a catalyst or some news as a catalyst many uh most of the stocks will also announce any gamechanging news or any news after hours uh after the market has closed or like before the market opens. So for this I have a process which I follow religiously uh pre-market and after market which goes through steps. So I am looking for uh every stock which has come out with earnings. So for this what I have is a tab group tab group tab group which I have created. I selected which website which I'm going to use for doing this information gathering. How am I 
[0:06] going to do it in what sequence and I have a group of tabs which I use for doing this. And these group of tabs are basically I can I'm going to pull that in here. Mhm. &gt;&gt; And if you see here right when I come in, I open the all these tabs in one go. And all of these tabs are what I use in order to uh find the information which I'm looking at. So the websites which I use is briefings, the fly, uh wall street journal, uh the morning star, uh then uh market smmith and then nowadays because AI is becoming a very good tool. So I'm using perplexity finance AI tool to research some of these companies. The starting point is always earnings right. So today like in after the market has closed there are two companies which are announcing earnings and you see that they like in a uh see CVGW has already so I look at this earnings whenever I'm looking for earnings I'm looking for a 
[0:07] surprise. So in this case there is a negative surprise and there are only two stocks uh or I'm looking for year-to-year revenue to be higher than and today doesn't really show you anything because there's not many companies. If I go into the history and uh try and look at like you know basically some of the archives like let's say like you know Wednesday is a good day to look at right and when you look at Wednesday you see that so many companies had earnings right and basically and then you can like sort them by year by year and you can see the one which I'm most interested are the one which are having very high sales growth 39% plus kind of a sales growth and surprise right so This is where I start like so th this had a surprise right and so that will be the starting point whenever I have this similarly uh this is before the open and this is after the close after the close also same thing same process surprise the one 
[0:08] which I have surprise are the one which are going to be what I will research right and in order to research them I use this tool briefings uh the same website but here again in terms of a process I have created two tabs for this process so I have this tab which is where earnings are showing and this is a general all news here and this is just specific if you see the filters here this has been filters and only it shows certain news so it only looking at broker research commentary and earnings rumors and summaries while this is looking at everything right so this allows me to quickly focus on earnings related news so I go through this earning related news now So you see like basically news has started coming KC's general beats by 68 cents and beats on revenue provides outlook increases dividend. So now this stock I will go and research further by looking at different uh sites like the first thing 
[0:09] I would look for is like I would look for what is the news item on this. I would read through this news item based on that I know obviously they had a good earnings and things like that. Then I look at the chart to see if it was rallying into earnings. If it was ringing into earnings, there's no trade. But this stock is not rallying into earnings. Right? So there's a probability that tomorrow at least or for next 3 to 5 days, the stock is likely to go up. So I'll go into more detail in terms of processing this information. I will look at like basically anything which is like showing this kind of an information. I will look at like you know basically the um I will look at what is the news item and see what was the news on this for a couple of days earlier what was the news so that like I can research this particular thing right I also use &gt;&gt; pretty can I jump in with a question what what could you see in those previous three days that would just scream to you all right this is a stock 
[0:10] to really be focused on &gt;&gt; yeah so what I'm looking for is like this stock didn't rally into our things right and there is a big surprise like I'm just taking like I have not had time to analyze this uh this news came in just while we were recording this uh session right so but here like and this stock has not gone anywhere for almost like a and last time it had earnings &gt;&gt; had 16% reaction right and so there's a potential that it will have a reaction because the uh per se if you look at just like the larger numbers uh look like an attractive because it's 68 cent bit and it is guiding also higher also increasing dividend right and basically but the important thing is I only look for a surprise if the stock is neglected and this stock is neglected right and at least for a month it is neglected so then the move become more explosive if it is neglected does that answer your question question question &gt;&gt; yes and and and also in terms of the 
[0:11] fundamental catalyst in in briefing or anything is there anything that you look for that would stand out to say this might be a better trade. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Uh so now like now this is just a news item I have seen right and but I will go into looking at like what I call as a x-ray of the stock which is like to look at the fundamental picture on this stock. Now obviously this will not be this information will not be updated immediately because this is just this information just came out one or two minutes ago but I can see what is happening here. This is like in a stock which is not really it's projected to grow for next four quarters and for the kind of retail stock it is it's a good projection 9 10% for that kind of a retail stock is not bad but this is not something which I get terribly excited about. I will get excited if I see something which is 39% 40% 50% growth rate. to give you say an example like say if I see something like u 
[0:12] this this this &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; then I get excited right and then I will go more detail kind of a thing. Now in addition to this particular uh like you know looking at the x-ray of the company cases I also look at like you know basically on morning star morning star is more focused on like uh valuation right and so I always like this is something new which I started using this year uh because I seen that it helps like if the stock has a valuation uh this thing so here in this case general store is trading at 439 right basically and they are saying that by their valuation matrix right and it's like in a it's not something which is cases is trading at 3% premium right so it's not like you know it's very cheap like sometimes you find stocks and they're trading at like a very discount to then you know look there is a likelihood that value investors will get interested in this stock and things like that so this is just an additional layer of 
[0:13] information which I use nowadays and I found some good trades by uh using this uh uh tool which is their valuation tool basically where they tell you what is the fair value for that particular stock. So fair value for this stock is trading at around 419. So uh that means the surprise might might move the stock but it's not going to move the stock uh big kind of a thing right so I just use this as a additional tool and then I use uh this particular tool whenever I'm looking at this particular tool right there are certain things which I am looking for obviously the sales growth being very important but again sales growth is context specific and sector specific what is a good sales growth in retail uh is very different for sales growth in a technology stock or a consumer discretionary stock. So this is consumer discretionary but it is basically uh even a 10% growth rate in retail is good for retail right and 
[0:14] basically but I look for also if there is a sudden so if you see in recent time there has been a surge in mutual fund ownership then that will attract my attention because that's what I look for like if I go back to the previous example which I just showed you right here you see that like there has been a sudden jump from 490 to do 642. So there is something funds are also attracted to this particular thing. So once I look at all these uh then I nowadays I started using this publicity city finance which is very good for like kind of creating prompts. So I'll just give you a quick examples of how I'll use this. Uh but I have different prompts which I have created to look for like say what is uh 
[0:15] so I would like and use a couple of prompts saying look at what are the analysts saying what is the bullish case and then it creates It's like kind of basically uh summary right and also like I I use this to say look can you summarize the uh earnings call for this particular uh thing. So it just allows you to rather than reading 20 20 pages of SEC filing, you can just read a few paragraphs and you get the gist of it like or what is the analyst opinion on this particular stock kind of a thing or which funds are uh what is the fund ownership trend on this. So I have created these multitude of prompts like nowadays and I use that. So once uh candidate goes through this waiting and if I find something which is attractive basically right that's when it will go into my next day or same day 
[0:16] stock to trade right and then when you do the analysis uh sometimes you find a stock uh which is going to go up for next two or three quarters and sometimes you find a stock which is just going to go up for one day or two day and you trade that accordingly basically so the ultimately these stocks once I analyze will get you either go into a bucket which will be like either a longerterm uh potential or a bigger potential or just 10 to 20% potential kind of a thing right so this is one thing which I do uh like you know basically uh for a process to find a trade and this process runs before the market opens by 8:30 I looked at everything most of the earnings come in by 8:30 very few earnings come in after whatever I do in the evening I will have a list like say let's just put in cases as an example there now because it's 
[0:17] gapping up a lot in the post market I can see right so that is one stock which I have now one idea right and basically so that process is over next day morning I might add one or two candidate to that particular process right so this is one process to find something which are the catalyst for that day. But what I have found is that whenever there is a catalyst uh the stocks go up on that day but many times because they're having large gaps nowadays uh they pull back and then they offer you an opportunity to enter after a couple of days or a few days right so what I do for that is I have a scan which is part of this process only which I run in the night or in the morning looking for a delayed reaction delayed EP delayed reaction EP uh kind of a thing. So what I do is I scan for stocks which had a big volume moves in the last 1 month. So what I look for is I I think a catalyst is a 
[0:18] good catalyst if it makes more than like you know 4% move on a 9 million shares kind of a drink. So I look for those stocks which have made that kind of a move in the last 25 days. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Right. And then I create a watch list of those stocks going through this each of these stocks I'll go through. So to give you an idea of like and I say today morning I went through this list and I created this watch list which was my watch list coming into today saying these are my delayed reaction watch list candidate for today and one of them was CCJ right because it had this catalyst here and it went sideways it was setting up and then it went up today. This is a stock which I'm watching now. In this particular case of this stock, there's a catalyst which there was earnings was 3 days ago and it reacted very positively to the earnings. It did like a highest volume traded ever in its entire lifetime. So it did 63 million shares traded or something like that. If you 
[0:19] see 68 million shares were traded the float is 249 million and it has a good catalyst and earnings. Uh it has a large order which it has received and things like that. So this is a stock which I was watching today for possible delayed entry. So this is how like this particular process runs and I create this watch list of stocks which are setting up which are a catalyst and they go sideways or sets up. So in case like say in the case of CRDO uh there is a good earnings it faded on that day after gapping up now it might have a delayed reaction. So I'm watching it for the same thing. Same way elf. So this is a combination of these two processes which I run and I create a watch list then for the day or trading list for the day basically right &gt;&gt; and to to show an example if you go back to T2000 um could you bring up APLD is this too too short of a pause uh for a delayed reaction EP that that third day 
[0:20] I'm talking about so there's one tight day day day &gt;&gt; yeah but like what happened really is like this is again like there is a 15 billion order so there is a clear catalyst and the volume is like a huge huge right and 239 million shares traded more than it's float traded actually now I was hoping that it will set up as a delayed reaction &gt;&gt; but sometimes what happens is they don't really give you an opportunity where there is a genuine catalyst you just have to enter because uh sometimes they don't give you &gt;&gt; uh delayed reaction kind of a entry right basically &gt;&gt; yeah and this would be an example of something you catch on day one because I think the the the news came out at 8 a.m. about the partnership with um with CRWV and that that's what created this this 60% move in a few days. Yeah. &gt;&gt; And this is again as part of a process now because I know what is the catalyst I write it down here itself so that I don't have to go back and look at the catalyst sim similarly whichever stock I want to like in a target like CRDO the 
[0:21] catalyst is earnings. So what I do is I put the projected earnings here and sales and earnings so that like I don't have to remember. So these are all small small uh process tweaks which I have done where like you know what is the catalyst like say here I wrote down the catalyst like him and hers on that day there's a tie up with NVO right so and this is this is where it became a delayed reaction kind of a setup &gt;&gt; so I go and like as a process try and avoid the uh trying to remember what is the catalyst and just put it there. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And um do you I mean you must draw from your logistics background to some extent when you're explaining this and developing this any any key takeaways or or things you want to mention related to that in terms of how people should think about creating processes for for trading. trading. trading. &gt;&gt; Mhm. uh see whenever you are creating processes for trading right and a processes have steps right and processes have tools and processes have like a uh sequence basically right uh now when I 
[0:22] worked in logistics uh like logistics is a very processoriented industry every single thing is driven by processes right and basically uh the thing which is important when you're looking at a process design is is is you need to master your tools Right. So that's why I only use certain websites. I'm not going to go and look for random or like keep changing my websites and all. Uh within that I know exactly what information I'm looking for in briefing, right? And basically what information I'm looking for like certain information is not available like in u like in u like in u certain information is available in briefing certain information is better available in some website. So I know exactly what to look for. Right. &gt;&gt; Right. uh also like you know where to find what information is part of your process flow. Uh so mastering your tool is one part. Second is when you have a process like this right 
[0:23] and you have to think through now when I do delayed reaction EP and if I have three good candidates in delayed reaction EP right now if I focus on this particular thing in the first thing in the morning I'm going to miss out on lot of breakouts right which I'm fine with because I want to prioritize if something has a real catalyst and I am really wanting to get into it I want to prioritize is that overr running another process. So those are again process related issues which we look for I look for in terms of how process is designed. So some days I make a conscious decision that I'm not going to look at running my breakout scans in the morning because I have these three birds in hand and those birds are worth more than the one which are likely to show up in the scans. &gt;&gt; Yep. And how how should traders who are completely new to trading or in their first few years they don't have processes yet? How would you recommend 
[0:24] them start building them and you know choose what steps to include uh what software to include all of that? How do how basically how have you developed and continued to evolve these processes to match changing market environments new setups? You know the delayed reaction is something relatively new that you've developed. So how how can people create a process and improve it you know slowly over time to to always get better. &gt;&gt; See I think another key to success in this business is once you find a setup idea is to have a process which is foolproof. Right now when you start developing a process the first iteration which you do is never going to be perfect and you have to keep on iterating till it becomes very easy for you to run and then you try different tools. So I tried out different tools. I looked at all the other things right and basically what I want when I train traders like and I just training one trader now and I told her to like you and I only focus on writing a process 
[0:25] and only following the process basically uh the moment she takes a trade out of that process uh I've seen that her performance goes down right so the process should be returned the process at least in the initial stages because that is when we are trying to develop the process right so the process should be returned process the process should have have have simplicity in it that's most critical because if the process is too complicated I tried creating some very complicated uh uh this thing prompts on that AI thing but like you know it just doesn't work simple prompts you create and it works right and basically so those are key to doing it and when to do what right and a lot of time uh I see a problem with how traders approach like newer trader uh first thing in the morning you should be ready with your watch list and then you prioritize that particular watch list right now that process is important if you're like in the morning you're starting to look for where is the earnings and what is the thing and you're trying to find like say 
[0:26] anticipation I run a process called anticipation but I don't touch anticipation as a process till 3 p.m. in the afternoon. Right? So again, uh the process development part is the most important and once you have a process and you start following a process um over a period of time over 2 weeks, 3 weeks, months, 6 months, 1 year, 2 years, you will realize which processes are redundant and you can drop those redundant processes. uh you try out some new things like every year I try out something new in the process or every 3 months and I see like this uh market uh this thing which I'm trying out this year is not something which is like basically basically basically I was using but I'm trying this out as a tool tool tool &gt;&gt; as a process hack to see if this helps because if doesn't help after I evaluated for a couple of months I might drop it right and basically so and then simplify your process. Uh that's the 
[0:27] key, right? And you have to keep on simplifying your process. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Excellent. So, uh that that's an excellent run through of more catalyst type trades. What about for the momentum burst and anticipation setups? Would you mind running through uh your processes for that? That'd be great. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Uh so this is like this is the entire process which will run for this particular thing. For this particular thing, right? And there are two types of trades I will take. Basically one kind of a trade will be a breakout which is like you know basically something which breaks out uh and like you know goes up for that particular day right and basically which is based on a scan and there is another process which is an anticipation so which is like a watch list I'm creating for uh finding setups which are likely to break out. So in a breakout kind of a process I have a very simple process and what I do is I have these two breakout scans which I use right uh in addition to this I have uh the other 
[0:28] software which I use trade ideas. So let me run through like the whole process including trade ideas to give you an idea right and so this is a breakout scan which I run and I start running this as soon as the market opens. So as soon as the market opens I'm just going through which stocks are having a uh breakout and again this is colorcoded so you will see that this is green that means it's bullish this is red that means it's bearish right and basically so I toggle between these two scans uh first thing in the morning in addition to this I have this entire set of scans which I use in trade ideas which are again breakout variations of breakout scans which I use basically and That thing is again these are simultaneously running in addition to this particular scan basically right and because then uh you can find setups which are like an say today like Tesla is an example of a trade which I took from this particular 
[0:29] scan because it opened lower and then it started showing up here when buyers came in and then I immediately went in and bought Tesla for a trade right and basically so I using a combination of this process to find breakouts basically right now breakouts are something which is like you don't know you you don't have that stock uh on your watch list and it suddenly breaks out and then I enter that particular trade so if I had to show you an example from today right and I so here like and I say this fastly right this shows up in my scan today and I entered this trade when it showed up right and this is a breakout now I wasn't watching fastly I didn't add it in my watch list. I saw it as a breakout and I entered it. Right? Now, in addition to this breakout scan, which is where I am reacting, right? Because this is a reactive kind of a process where I'm reacting to a scan candidate and buying it on the fly kind of a thing. I do an anticipation of breakouts for 
[0:30] singles. For anticipation, this particular process runs primarily in the first half an hour, 30 minutes. I want to get into as many breakout as possible in the first 30 minutes. Even though I run it throughout the day, the real concentration for this process is 30 minute. Now what I do is once these breakouts and all has come in and all in the afternoon there is nothing to do actually right because you're already in trades you're just managing your trades and all. So at around 3:00 anticipation setups for next day. Right? So I have a setup uh like I have a scans for anticipation and in this case I will have a bullish anticipation scan and I look for this particular stocks which have like the if you look at the condition it's just looking for a stock which has basically a momentum and which is up or down less than 4% right so it's a very tight scan which is looking for stock which has a narrow range day and 
[0:31] then I have even the columns which I use for doing this there is a certain process process process If I'm doing anticipation, I have a column which I use which is the net change and I always sort by the lowest net change and always look for the one which has the lowest net net change first because the lower the net change the tighter is the candle, right? Or it's like say this particular stock has a net change of zero, right? And so that's what I'm looking for. So every single column is again there is a process involved with it like if I'm looking for buying breakouts always all my breakout scans are already sorted by volume. These are the kind of process innovation which are done in so in the morning you know whatever is showing up at the top has good volume and liquidity right whatever is showing at the bottom has less liquidity. uh then again like I have some fundamental scans uh so if a candidate which is showing up is in one of the fundamental bucket then I have 
[0:32] this thing set up. So everything which is required for me to make a decision is there like a dashboard in this particular process &gt;&gt; right and only thing which are required for me to make a decision on a breakout is there in this particular uh layout. Now other layouts have other things because I might use them for some other purpose but here I don't know need too much information all that I need to know is is this stock like in bucket one bucket zero bucket two or is it part of the IBD250 just to give it a more importance or things like that. So all these columns how they are sorted is again a process which is fixed every day same thing I do. Okay. So now if I go through the second process, what I do is this anticipation thing. I go through this process and I look for an anticipation setup here right and when I look for an anticipation setup when I find an anticipation setup and this is a example of a process innovation which I did. So what I used to do is I used to 
[0:33] create an anticipation watch list and I used to look for buying them next day morning. Right? But nowadays I don't really buy them next day morning. If I see a good anticipation setup which I think is likely to break out, I buy them just before the market close between 358 to just 4:00. I will buy an anticipation candidate uh without like you know looking for a breakout or a confirmation. Now this there are two reason for this process orientation a process hack which I have done. one because if I spend the time in the morning with a watch list anticipation watch list trying to get into them I might miss out on this I might miss out on a good breakout right so the processes interfere with each other a breakout process interferes with a watch list process so I said like anyway I'm so sure that if this breaks out I'm 
[0:34] going to buy and I know that people do most of their anticipation work in the night and they try and enter it in the morning so I just do it at 358 and take that small risk but it frees me up my time in the morning to focus on this and this. this. this. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Right. So this is the process which I use for uh doing this particular anticipation kind of a thing. The watch list if I have a good candidate I would already be in it that trade basically. So the combination of these two processes run simultaneously. And when a trade shows up, if it is from an anticipation and it breaks out, it would I would be already in it basically, right? &gt;&gt; And can you show an uh an example of a recent anticipation trade just for people who aren't familiar with the setup what it looks like uh to to basically see a good case study. uh recently anticipation haven't been working well but like and I say something like this is a good example of 
[0:35] today's like this is also like was a anticipation setup also right in a CCG &gt;&gt; see here like it was up or down like 39 cents right and it was here also I had it in my anticipation setup because it was like on this particular day uh it looked like this right and it was 08 right so that's the kind of setup I look for where the stock has momentum and it is going sideways and I have specific criteria for anticipation. I only focus on anticipation setup where the stock is going sideways for less than 10 days. If it keeps going sideways for longer than urgency to get into this. So some of these are where anticipation setups coming into today right and some of them deteriorate like some of them like during the day but uh dtoriate like and but uh that's what I look for like this is now becoming an anticipation setup because uh two tight days today it is very tight just down 01 so this is 
[0:36] something which I already have a position I already taken a position in this one now right so that's an anticipation setup so For an anticipation setup, what I look for is basically uh what I call as TTT, which is three tight days, right, in a row or two tight days. Minimum two tight days. The ideal one will have three tight days. So this particular setup in this case is a 2T setup. So there are two tight days now. And this can become a three tight days. Three tide days or two tight days is what I look for in a setup basically like that. &gt;&gt; Excellent. And I think another great process that uh you know I I've learned I've learned from you and and you've taught many traders is uh situational awareness situational awareness your process for doing that. Do you mind running through you know what you look for and you know all that entails to help you know &gt;&gt; give you insight on that. &gt;&gt; Mhm. So for situational awareness I have a process again and this particular 
[0:37] process I run in the morning. So this is a morning process and uh this morning process is basically fundamentally trying to answer one question every day. I ask myself a question in the morning are breakouts breakouts breakouts likely to work for next for next for next Right? So if breakouts are likely to work obviously you go and like load up right if breakouts are not working uh then you don't like you dep prioritize right so in order to answer this question there are certain tools and processes which I use and one of the tools is market monitor right and in the market monitor I'm looking at looking at what is the breadth uh of things in the market right so here this is a market monitor right and in the market monitor you will see whether 
[0:38] buying is coming in or selling is coming in into the market. Right? Whenever there is buying coming in like currently there's buying coming in so breakouts are working some breakouts are not working but more or less breakouts are working because money is flowing into the market. Basically money this is a indicator of money flow into the market right but in addition to this particular tool of market monitor I also have a new tool which I have been using and which is a study 20% study. So this 20% study is basically and this is plotted on spy and this you can only do uh in TC2000 version platinum version you can't do it in the normal version but here what it is plotting is it's plotting below spy the number of stocks in the universe of warden universe of stocks right and which have up 20% in last 5 days right so when you see extreme readings Like this was a 200 plus day uh reading right 
[0:39] that was a 234. You see that like you know the market had a correction right now here this was a 200 plus day and in the short-term period like here recently we had 200% plus day and then the market had a pullback right so whenever this this is like an oscillator right so the when the readings are low when the readings are below 20 I'm very bullish and the reading go to the extremes above 100 I become less and less bullish uh because uh that indicates that in the short period of time you're likely to get a pullback. So the using this particular methodology and tool like a 20% study which is like looking at how many stocks have gone up 20% in last 5 days. Uh and in addition to that the third thing variable is just the trades which I'm taking right if they're having a follow 
[0:40] through. If I see three trades in a row not having a follow through, I know that there is some problem in the environment, right? Because the setup is not a problem. Trade this setup for 25 years, right? So as a result of having this logically going through this I answer this question either uh look at a yes if it is yes then you go buy breakout or maybe or select breakouts are working then in that case you become more selective you like are only selecting breakouts with some catalyst or only a quality setups you don't or reduce your exposure total and if the breakouts are not working uh I just don't trade if the breakouts are not working right and basically in addition to this like that's just the fundamental question are breakouts likely to work for next three to five days right there's another question which I ask right and like and one of the things which I have discovered for trading over many years is if you can 
[0:41] get into a breakout as early as possible or like what I call it find and enter early if you can find and enter early it's very good right because instantly you're profitable and The trade is just your like you are just using market money to make money then right so I asked that second question is is is find and enter early better here or or waiting is better. So if I see that like what I've been seeing in this market is every day morning right nowadays almost for like in the last one week even if the market opens positive it sells up till 10:00 starts like even today you'll see the market sold off and then at around 11:00 this is like almost like a cycle which is happening. So if you buy a breakout early what happens you get stopped out and then the stock goes up like good example of that today I can show you is 
[0:42] like this particular stock NVTS right and out of the gate it came out right and if you look at on a lower time frame it just broke out right and if you bought it like and it ended up giving up all the gains and then later the buying came in and it became a successful breakout. So waiting little bit in this market condition is better than like finding an entry early. So this is again a process which I am like done. Similarly I have a intraday tools which also helps me like this is number of new high and new low happening per seconds uh per uh seconds in uh the market. So if I see lot of selling coming in uh then I would like tighten my stops or like take profits early. So that's another process for situational awareness which is there basically I think I can't hear you. Your microphone is off. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Thank you. Uh and then this is this is excellent. And one other process that uh that I think is excellent that 
[0:43] you do uh it's it's very similar name to your 20% study but it's your process for you know studying trades that have actually moved 20% in five days. And it's a way of teaching yourself what to look for to develop an anticipation setup or a similar setup. Um, so yeah, if you you do you mind talking through that and and how you use that to, you know, train your eyes for what to look for and build that build that visual memory. memory. memory. &gt;&gt; Mhm. So what I do is I have a couple of studies, right? and three studies I have like you know basically uh so every day every day when I come in into the office right and I I spend 20 minutes minutes minutes every day there is not a day when I don't do this right as a process this is again a process right and this is all because of my background of uh process orientation and all I go and look at stocks which have made 20% move in the last five days, right? Because these are the kind of stocks which I want to trade 
[0:44] and I look at what is their what was the starting point, what was the like and I study them to see what kind of a signal would have got me into these stocks and many of these stocks like you know many of these trades I would take also like you know if I miss a trade then I go back and see and also this study helps me in finding what works on five day time frame right &gt;&gt; one of the biggest finding on a fiveday time frame is uh it's not like any really The stock doesn't need to have momentum before making a 5day move. What it needs to have is just a start of a swing kind of a momentum and then it works right. But the bigger thing, the biggest realization is like the capitalization. Uh you will see that all the stocks which are here in this 20% study and I've been doing this study for many years and there are stock be members who gone and done a deep dive also on this one. You see capitalization out of the 
[0:45] you will see that only five stocks have a capitalization about 10 billion right that's like in a 90% of the stocks or 95% of the stocks have capitalization below 10 billion. So this is a very important criteria because when you have multiple breakouts, you should select a breakout which has a capitalization below 10 billion or a lower capitalization because that's likely to make uh 20% move. Similarly, if you look at the price, right? Most of the stocks which will make these kind of a uh moves will have a price below $20. So this is another thing which I look for in terms of capitalization, price and sector. If you put a sector here, you'll see that this list is dominated by by by technology, healthcare and consumer discretionary stock. And this is all year round mean like you can run this study for weeks after weeks after weeks and you'll see the stocks which is likely to make a 20% study is either going to go from come from technology sector, healthcare means biotechnology 
[0:46] most of the time and consumer discretionary. Occasionally like currently you will find some stocks are from metal and mining but that's not really so when you want to know what is the theme which is working the 20% study tells you this right so I have this 20% study both bullish and bearish side I study also it tells you right and basically that today like you know you have 80 stocks but on the bearish side only 11 stocks so it's not like focusing on bearish side is of no use in addition to this because I focus more on higher price stocks because of size of account and things like that. I also have a study where I look for a stock which has made a $20 move in 5 days. Right? It's a dollar study. So same way and then I also have a study which I do more on a weekend. This I may not do it daily but I do it on the weekend where I look for stocks which have made 50% plus move in last two months. 40 days is two months 
[0:47] of trading right and basically so they have done five 50% plus so I want to see stocks which make 50% move so and these studies becomes the output like you know the output of this and the learnings from these studies then becomes a input for developing setups setups setups &gt;&gt; right &gt;&gt; and this is how I found setups like uh I found a setup EP9 million from doing this kind of a work when I found 50% stock I found that they had certain magnitude of volume or like uh I found a setup idea called weak structure shot which is a continuation shot by looking at these kind of things. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Excellent. And one one other process that that's related to this is if somebody wants to do a deep dive into you know EP9 million or any any of the setups or you know another setup that they find uh what what's kind of your thought process for you know studying that building building that intuition building that pattern recognition so that they could recognize it in real time you know as quickly as possible. 
[0:48] Mhm. Uh so what I do is like you know for deep dive right and I deep dive all these stocks all the time right and basically now whenever I'm doing a deep dive on this particular stock right the number one question means you need do a deep dive with a certain hypothesis and a certain uh objective right and one of the objectives where do moves start right because uh if a stock is going to make a 50% move the general I go to all kinds of websites and twitter and all and I watch a lot of YouTube videos and I watch all your interviews also. General conclusion of people who talk about market is that stocks which hold up the best are the one which make the biggest move right &gt;&gt; my 50% study shows that is complete because most of the 50% stocks start from low point and they make 50%. So if you want to like a fine stock like G didn't start from like it starts from like low points kind of a thing. So in order to do a deep dive kind of a thing right I have what I always define if I 
[0:49] want to do a deep dive like on a weekend supposing if I'm doing a deep dive I define what I what is the question which I'm trying to answer or what is the problem which I'm trying to solve right because you can do a deep dive without an agenda and then at the end of it what is the learning you don't know what is the learning right so if I'm asking a specific question saying look at what catalyst makes stock go up Right? Now that's a specifically focused deep dive. Right? So when I start doing this deep dive, I look at like and then what was the catalyst for Dolingo, right? And I say earnings and sales is the catalyst, right? GEV again earnings and sales is the catalyst. Now what is the catalyst for Wingstop and so on and so forth and then I will see where there is a real earnings real sales and then 
[0:50] you have like lot of these stocks like Dave has a real earnings and real sales but a lot of these stocks which would have made a big move for the year right there would be something which is like you know just uh some dupv right I don't even know it will be some catalyst which will be like completely we launched some uh treasury for crypto or we managed to get like in a two people to go in our spacecraft 300 ft above the ground or things like that. Right? So then you know what catalyst will move that right? Then you start categorizing you look at out of this uh say 150 stocks are 50% of let's say in last two months right and you see that you look at a 50 stocks had real catalyst and 100 stocks had this kind of like a catalyst which is a stoishist catalyst and the stocks which had story catalyst made two times the move of the stocks with real earnings so why am I wasting my time looking at real earnings right so that's the kind of then again you 
[0:51] want to like answer the question look and this is another one of my uh discovery or not discovery but also observation basically uh that uh most of the stocks which make even a 300% move uh they make all that 300% move in less than 2 months &gt;&gt; very few stocks are going to make moves which will last 300% move but like it will happen in 2 months or 14 days or 15 days so this answers the question of look kind look kind look kind How do you move your stops on those kind of things right? Then uh so these and which I discussed with you a couple of times that concept uh out of these studies the concept came in which is like you know there are magnitude moves and there are duration moves and I also have studied like this is not the only thing which I study. I have studied these stocks. I have this whole tab which I do for a deep dive where I look for these uh stocks which have gone up uh for five years in a row, 10 years in 
[0:52] a row, right? So I have these stocks which is like say if you see this particular stock eolab right uh out of persistency. So out of 30 years it has what is the criteria? Why what what is the reason why O'Reilly is a good example of a stock right? In this entire negative years. So what is special about these stocks? So deep dive can answer these kind of questions and then that can help you in finding different setups or it can help you in finding uh uh uh stocks to hold for longer term. &gt;&gt; Mhm. Excellent. And to bring it back to kind of what you were talking about earlier in the presentation, uh could you just kind of break up your day in terms of when you're doing each process, the situational awareness, the prepping for the EPs and pre-market all the way through through the postmarket? I think 
[0:53] that'd be a good uh good wrap-up. &gt;&gt; Mhm. So, I come to my office at 8 a.m. nowadays, right? And I become lazier. Earlier I used to come at 7:00, now I start at 8:00, right? So, when I come in at 8:00, right? And as soon as I open my computer the first thing which is going to happen without like and I this thing is study 20%. Because the study 20% also is one of the inputs in situational awareness right so that allows me to see what kind of stocks what sectors are working and things like that and then that allows me to answer the situational awareness question. Now, so those two tasks are like the primary task takes around this takes around 15 minutes in the morning, right? And then I start my um then I start my uh work for what I call 
[0:54] I have a process which I call as NTRT MTRT which is basically a process to find EP and uh SIPs right and basically so this is where I start looking at earnings and news plays. So this is something where I will go and look at earnings which has been released last night or today morning. I look at what stocks are gapping up. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; And then I'll research. This takes me around 20 minutes, 15 to 20. It's a continuous loop which I am doing. So sometimes we finish and then some breaking news comes in and then you go back and research. But around 15 minutes kind of a thing which I do this right now once I have done this I have a good idea how my day is going to be in terms of like what am I going to target, how aggressively I'm going to be buying breakouts and things like that. Right? Then I have a visualization. Uh I have set aside a time in the morning I have a process of visualization right. So I have these scripts which I have developed for visualization after studying the sports 
[0:55] psychology and how the tennis players and uh all these other players do it and all. So I spend like around 10 minutes visualizing how am I going to be playing this market and how what is that I'm going to do and I it's the visualization is just I'm prepping myself for the trading day in terms of clarifying my ideas mind and be very clear uh kind of a thing right and then once that is done um uh like I am looking for the market to open and now if I supposing if I did some like an research and I found some earnings plays and all uh then if I want to enter them right and I enter a lot of earnings plays using what is called as an OPG order which is opening price guarantee or market on open order right so by 9:20 uh if I am going to do something for OPG and all by 9:20 my orders will be in for those stocks so I would have already put in the orders and then I'm just going to 
[0:56] be watching kind of a thing and then once 9:30 the market opens Right. I am looking for either a delayed reaction kind of a setup which I am like you know trying to enter. If I see something starting to uh like break out then I'm going to enter or I'm going to enter a breakout. breakout. breakout. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Right. And then by 10:00 I'm done. By 10 10:30 means invariably by 10 10:30 I'm done trading in terms of most of the time I'm like you know whatever I wanted to enter or uh things like that I am in right and basically so then I go to the gym I do all my exercise and all and then the second part of this process starts. So I'm going to put it here so that like you know we we have a continuity on the same slide. So at around 2:00 I start looking at like and I say by that time what happens is sometimes you have open positions they get closed out or you take a profit and you have more capital so or like some of the breakouts which you buy they didn't work out and all so you start looking at 
[0:57] second cycle of okay uh I'm going to get into some breakouts I'm going to run the breakout scan and look for some more breakouts or some of the dollar breakouts kind of breakouts which are slower in uh movement they don't show up early Those are the kind of breakouts which I will run. But by around 3:00, right? This is also done by 3 p.m. I look for look for look for anticipation. I start running my anticipation scan and I also have anticipation and a reversal which is like a pullback kind of a setup which I developed. So these two I will look at it. If I find some candidate even if I find it at 3:30 I don't enter them because if you enter them at 3:30 a lot of time what happens? what looks like a good anticipation candidate deteriorates right so I wait it it's just like an achiling time till around and I'm done for the day right and then the cycle continues next day basically 
[0:58] &gt;&gt; excellent well Pep thank you so much for for running through all of this uh do you have any general advice for traders who are are earlier in their journeys in terms of creating their processes or thinking about the you know the whole process of creating processes any general advice to to leave everybody with here today &gt;&gt; so anybody who's a beginner traders or even a struggler trader right and the first thing I think and there is a hierarchy of decision making to arrive at a process which you need to do and I think the first uh decision which you need to do is some time frame decision once for all decide whether you want to be a day trader or a swing trader or a hybrid of day and swing trader right or position trader Like because uh once you decide your destination several flights and several paths will open up right &gt;&gt; uh so this time frame decision once that is done then setup because whatever time frame you decide you want to decide like to become a day trader you'll still need setup now once setup idea is you 
[0:59] research setup idea deep dive back test whatever you do you decided look for a setup for let's say for a day trader let's assume that uh you decided to become a day trader right and basically uh and you're going to trade a uh setup which is very popular which is like in a uh shorting small caps right which is a very popular setup which day traders use right and basically now you need to have a process because in order to short a small caps you need to identify stocks which are making very big moves so you'll have some scans or you'll have run realtime scans to see stocks which are of 200 300% kind of a thing then you need a process to research because you can't just short it. All these people who do this uh small cap shorting they will go to websites like uh the dilution tracker they will read the SEC filing they will see how many warrants are there and what is likelihood of like when that company 
[1:00] is going to come out with a secondary filing and things like that right so you research and then you decide these are my two or three candidates which are like and I'm going to be targeting and then many of them will go a step further they will decide their levels they will probably put in like levels support resistance or whatever they will draw on that pre-market so that they know this is the level at which if it starts coming I'm going to short or this is the level at which I'll take my stop or things like that right and basically then there is a process which you need to have to find the shorts you need to pre-borrow those shots so there'll be a process to pre-borrow and things like that so step by step you'll have a process right and once you get into a trade then you'll have a process as to how you're going to put the stop what happens If it gets halted what happens uh all those things right and basically so systematically you have to develop the process. Now once you have a process right whatever process you do whatever process you develop uh you have 
[1:01] to keep iterating and simplifying and simplifying because you know process engineering I studied process engineering uh the first 30 processes which you develop are always junk you learn by actually implementing the process on paper you can write a process but when you implement you start find oh if it halts and if it halts two times in a row all your process of saying I'm going to put my stop doesn't really work because it just like you know opens 100% above your stop right and basically so process undergo iteration so iterate the process once you have iteration of process and once you freeze the process right then unless there is some reason to change things don't change the things right and because uh one of the problems for a lot of traders is they just keep changing processes or just because a fancy tool comes in they just like you know go and tools can be a distraction right and every day uh you know how this 
[1:02] industry is right and I get ped five new tools right if I start spending my time on the tools I my process will go for a toss so then freeze the process and once you have one process and one setup completely under your belt then start developing start thinking look now this is this process only requires 1 hour what can I use my time better for what other process can I do? Uh what other process can I do to trade differently and things like that. So it has to be a proc mean ultimately you become a successful trader when you find a process which works for you. Right? Setups are in public domain. There are dime a dozen setup ideas in public domain. The difference between a profitable trader and unprofitable trader is the profitable trader has managed to develop a process which works for them. Right. &gt;&gt; Excellent. Well, Praep, thank you again for for walking us through all this. This is excellent. Um, where can people 
[1:03] reach out to you or or learn more from you if they'd like to? Obviously, we did the episodic pivot master class at Trailerine, but uh, you know, other than that, which you can find on troline.com, uh, where else would you point people to? Uh I have a like a uh the Twitter is where a lot of people contact me, YouTube uh uh my blog or like people just uh like a mean membership is one of the option but even if you are not a member most of the time right and if somebody contacts me and asks me question I may not be able to answer that in one hour but I try and answer every single email every single DM try and answer within a week uh expecting me to answer it same today is not going to happen because of the volume but I answer all the questions which people have basically all the time even if they are non-members like I answer all questions questions questions &gt;&gt; excellent well Praep thank you again for for being a part of this and and for sharing all this this is excellent uh to everybody watching make sure you check out the resources that Praep mentioned 
[1:04] uh you can check out his blog of course stockbe and uh we'll have the link to his Twitter uh in the description as well so Praep thank you again so much for for being a part of the conference and uh we'll see you guys in the next one. Cheers. &gt;&gt; Thank you. [Music] 